Conflict: get parents to apply for welfare (stigma by parents that welfare is for homeless, cultural values, humility, shame)        


Dream of vacation
Wakes up by cough
Rich relatives shame people who depend upon welfare
Parents then don’t want to apply for welfare
Work extremely hard 
Son convinces to apply for welfare, still doesn’t
Bikes to nail salon, sees fat man smoking a weed. “Exactly like the kind of people my all knowing parents would warn me about.”
Doesn’t knock the door, bikes back. Scared. Angry. Knows something about their workplace that he didn’t know before.
Eavesdrop on conversation. Same relative complaining about “welfare people stealing our taxes.”
Parents get angry that son is so adamant about welfare






I could hear the Niagara's thunder of water before I could see it. I then could feel the cold mist of a combination of the 2 Great Lakes before I could see it. Then, the crowd of tourists opened up to the most majestic sight ever. All around me, except for the families cramped next to me on the railing, was an endless curtain of water dropping 60 feet down. This combination of Niagara’s thunderous noise, the cold mist of the 2 Great Lakes, and the majestic site, proved this vacation worthwhile. This was the dream vacation for us, me and my 2 parents. We had never had any vacations since we had moved to Canada. And for a while, the roar of tons of water crashing down deafened any worries I had. The muffled sound of a raspy cough then somehow managed to wrestle its way into the Niagara’s roar. I opened my eyes and looked around, searching for the source of this cough. I didn’t see the white waters crashing down onto Lake Ontario. The comforting deafening sound also disappeared. I only saw the yellow streetlights through my bedroom window. Another muffled cough fought its way through my shut bedroom doors and nestled itself into my ears, as if taunting me that my real life wasn’t a dream as I had dreamt. 
It was my dad’s routine midnight cough. I should have gotten used to it by now. No point pretending I was living a dream. You see, he and my mom are one of the many Vietnamese that slave day and night at a nail salon. Perhaps, calling the dump where they works a nail salon is a bit generous. Call it an acrylic gas chamber. Call it a street corner slave center. Call it whatever you want, but know that it is destroying my parents.
Another splitting cough was followed by the flick of a light switch and the sound of tap water running. I fell back onto my bed,