Conflict: get parents to apply for welfare (stigma by parents that welfare is for homeless, cultural values, humility, shame)        


Dream of vacation
Wakes up by cough
Rich relatives shame people who depend upon welfare
Parents then don’t want to apply for welfare
Work extremely hard 
Son convinces to apply for welfare, still doesn’t
Bikes to nail salon, sees fat man smoking a weed. “Exactly like the kind of people my all knowing parents would warn me about.”
Doesn’t knock the door, bikes back. Scared. Angry. Knows something about their workplace that he didn’t know before.
Eavesdrop on conversation. Same relative complaining about “welfare people stealing our taxes.”
Parents get angry that son is so adamant about welfare








I could hear the Niagara's thunder of water before I could see it. I then could feel the cold mist of a combination of the 2 Great Lakes before I could see it. Then, the crowd of tourists opened up to the most majestic sight ever. All around me, except for the families cramped next to me on the railing, was an endless curtain of water dropping 60 feet down. This combination of Niagara’s thunderous noise, the cold mist of the 2 Great Lakes, and the majestic site, proved this vacation worthwhile. This was the dream vacation for us, me and my 2 parents. We had never had any vacations since we had moved to Canada. And for a while, the roar of tons of water crashing down deafened any worries I had. The muffled sound of a raspy cough then somehow managed to wrestle its way into the Niagara’s roar. I opened my eyes and looked around, searching for the source of this cough. I didn’t see the white waters crashing down onto Lake Ontario. The comforting deafening sound also disappeared. I only saw the yellow streetlights through my bedroom window. Another muffled cough fought its way through my shut bedroom doors and nestled itself into my ears, as if taunting me that my real life wasn’t a dream as I had dreamt. 
It was my dad’s routine midnight cough. I should have gotten used to it by now. No point pretending I was living a dream. You see, he and my mom are one of the many Vietnamese that slave day and night at a nail salon. Perhaps, calling the dump where they works a nail salon is a bit generous. Call it an acrylic gas chamber. Call it a street corner slave center. Call it whatever you want, but know that it is destroying my parents.
Another splitting cough was followed by the flick of a light switch and the sound of tap water running. I fell back onto my bed, and squeezed shut my eyes. My parents couldn’t continue like this. They would die. I remembered the time when I skipped doing dishes and passed it onto my parents. I remembered the time I came home late, expecting a harsh lesson from my parents. Only to find out they weren’t home. I remembered the time I biked past Main St and peered into the nail salon, seeing my parents’ face engrossed in someone’s dirty nails. I remembered waking up from my parent’s 1 AM coughs and getting mad at my parents. And now, it was happening again. Except now, I was mad at myself.
Why hadn’t I helped out my parents before it was too late? What freak would leave their parents even more work at home? What kind of son was I, to be relieved to find that my parents were not home yet, still slaving away at other people’s nails? I slammed the bed with as much force as I could muster. 
At first, it was from my heart. And then to my eyes. And then the tears came out. I shut my eyelids tight, and willed the tears to disappear. They streamed through my shut eyelids, streaking down my cheeks and splattering on my pillow. The sound of running water stopped. Then, a flick of a light switch, and the bed groaning under a new load. But my tears kept on streaking down the sides of my face. They stung like crazy. Each memory of my parents brought along with it new tears, and more regret. I didn’t sleep that night.
I pretended nothing had happened the night before. For breakfast, my mom cooked an omelette from a mini-stove brought from a yard sale. The 3 of us shared the omelette from a single plate. 
I knew the government had welfare programs. I knew we were eligible for large welfare benefits. But I also knew that my relatives hated people dependent on welfare. I had overheard them on the phone with my relatives.
“Our son is doing fairly well in school. Working at a nail salon is really good now. At least we have a decent paycheck to look forward to, now. Thanks for asking!” my dad said. I wanted to add, “Oh, and other from the ‘decent’ paycheck, we also have lung problems, sleepless nights, and midnight coughs to look forward to. Oh, and we don’t ever to get time to spend with our son. We are always working, but we have no idea how well he’s doing in school. Oh yeah, and thanks for asking!” I could feel the tears streaming up. If I said it, I was going to cry. I didn’t want to cry. So I didn’t say it.
“It’s good to hear that!” my aunt replied, “Don’t depend on welfare. Welfare is only for homeless failures, be hardworking and--” I couldn’t have ran faster down the stairs. I didn’t want to listen to anymore of her toxic advice. 
I had already asked my dad to consider the welfare option. At least, it would make our lives significantly better. In fact, we needed welfare, but my dad was firm in that welfare was for losers, and since we are not losers, we don’t need welfare. That was the end of the discussion, and the rest of dinner was held by a quiet friction between us. 
That was the few dinners I had with my parents, as they worked late on the other days. I regretted staying silent. 
My dad slumped off to watch TV, and my mom was on her phone. With nothing to do and no one to talk to, I finished the rest of my homework and went to bed. I prayed that I wouldn’t wake up from my dad’s coughs tonight. Not because I wanted a good night’s sleep, but because I didn’t want to cry again. 
In the morning, I got the sudden urge to do something--it was Saturday after all. I needed to do something about this situation.
I made sure my parents would not be at the nail salon, at least for anytime soon, and hopped on my bike. As I cruised down West 12th and turned right onto Main St, I still didn’t know what I would do once I got there. Every car that whizzed by me sent a wave of cold air and sprays of dirty rainwater onto my jacket. 
Would I just pretend that I was a customer? What if it was closed? Would they tell my parents that I was here? What would I say to my parents? That I biked for 20 minutes to the nail salon in the middle of fall on a Saturday? With every blast of cold air and sprays of black rainwater I endured, these questions became ever more desperate. The nail salon was right on the corner of the next intersection. Dread slowly engulfed me as I got closer to this nail salon. The big neon “OPEN” sign, the essay writing advertisements taped to the door, and colorful promotions for Vietnamese music festivals. I stared hard at the dirty glass panes, trying to make out whoever or whatever was inside. A car horn was then followed by more horns. I kept staring. They got louder and louder, accompanied the shriek of rubber sliding on asphalt. I was jerked backwards. My arms flailed as it tried to regain balance. My head hit something hard. And then, black.