Conflict: get parents to apply for welfare (stigma by parents that welfare is for homeless, cultural values, humility, shame)        


[a]










I could hear the Niagara's thunder of water before I could see it. I then could feel the cold mist of a combination of the 2 Great Lakes before I could see it. Then, the crowd of tourists opened up to the most majestic sight ever. All around me, except for the families cramped next to me on the railing, was an endless curtain of water dropping 60 feet down. This combination of Niagara’s thunderous noise, the cold mist of the 2 Great Lakes, and the majestic site, proved this vacation worthwhile. This was the dream vacation for us, me and my 2 parents. We had never had any vacations since we had moved to Canada. And for a while, the roar of tons of water crashing down deafened any worries I had. The muffled sound of a raspy cough then somehow managed to wrestle its way into the Niagara’s roar. I opened my eyes and looked around, searching for the source of this cough. I didn’t see the white waters crashing down onto Lake Ontario. The comforting deafening sound also disappeared. I only saw the yellow streetlights through my bedroom window. Another muffled cough fought its way through my shut bedroom doors and nestled itself into my ears, as if taunting me that my real life wasn’t a dream as I had dreamt. 
It was my dad’s routine midnight cough. I should have gotten used to it by now. No point pretending I was living a dream. You see, he and my mom are one of the many Vietnamese that slave day and night at a nail salon. Perhaps, calling the dump where they works a nail salon is a bit generous. Call it an acrylic gas chamber. Call it a street corner slave center. Call it whatever you want, but know that it is destroying my parents.
Another splitting cough was followed by the flick of a light switch and the sound of tap water running. I fell back onto my bed, and squeezed shut my eyes. My parents couldn’t continue like this. They would die. I remembered the time when I skipped doing dishes and passed it onto my parents. I remembered the time I came home late, expecting a harsh lesson from my parents. Only to find out they weren’t home. I remembered the time I biked past Main St and peered into the nail salon, seeing my parents’ face engrossed in someone’s dirty nails. I remembered waking up from my parent’s 1 AM coughs and getting mad at my parents. And now, it was happening again. Except now, I was mad at myself.
Why hadn’t I helped out my parents before it was too late? What freak would leave their parents even more work at home? What kind of son was I, to be relieved to find that my parents were not home yet, still slaving away at other people’s nails? I slammed the bed with as much force as I could muster. 
At first, it was from my heart. And then to my eyes. And then the tears came out. I shut my eyelids tight, and willed the tears to disappear. They streamed through my shut eyelids, streaking down my cheeks and splattering on my pillow. The sound of running water stopped. Then, a flick of a light switch, and the bed groaning under a new load. But my tears kept on streaking down the sides of my face. They stung like crazy. Each memory of my parents brought along with it new tears, and more regret. I didn’t sleep that night.
I pretended nothing had happened the night before. For breakfast, my mom cooked an omelette from a mini-stove brought from a yard sale. The 3 of us shared the omelette from a single plate. 
I knew the government had welfare programs. I knew we were eligible for large welfare benefits. But I also knew that my relatives hated people dependent on welfare. I had overheard them on the phone with my relatives.
“Our son is doing fairly well in school. Working at a nail salon is really good now. At least we have a decent paycheck to look forward to, now. Thanks for asking!” my dad said. I wanted to add, “Oh, and other from the ‘decent’ paycheck, we also have lung problems, sleepless nights, and midnight coughs to look forward to. Oh, and we don’t ever to get time to spend with our son. We are always working, but we have no idea how well he’s doing in school. Oh yeah, and thanks for asking!” I could feel the tears streaming up. If I said it, I was going to cry. I didn’t want to cry. So I didn’t say it.
“It’s good to hear that!” my aunt replied, “Don’t depend on welfare. Welfare is only for homeless failures, be hardworking and--” I couldn’t have ran faster down the stairs. I didn’t want to listen to anymore of her toxic advice. 
I had already asked my dad to consider the welfare option. At least, it would make our lives significantly better. In fact, we needed welfare, but my dad was firm in that welfare was for losers, and since we are not losers, we don’t need welfare. That was the end of the discussion, and the rest of dinner was held by a quiet friction between us. 
That was the few dinners I had with my parents, as they worked late on the other days. I regretted staying silent. 
My dad slumped off to watch TV, and my mom was on her phone. With nothing to do and no one to talk to, I finished the rest of my homework and went to bed. I prayed that I wouldn’t wake up from my dad’s coughs tonight. Not because I wanted a good night’s sleep, but because I didn’t want to cry again. 
In the morning, I got the sudden urge to do something--it was Saturday after all. I needed to do something about this situation.
I made sure my parents would not be at the nail salon, at least for anytime soon, and hopped on my bike. As I cruised down West 12th and turned right onto Main St, I still didn’t know what I would do once I got there. Every car that whizzed by me sent a wave of cold air and sprays of dirty rainwater onto my jacket. 
Would I just pretend that I was a customer? What if it was closed? Would they tell my parents that I was here? What would I say to my parents? That I biked for 20 minutes to the nail salon in the middle of fall on a Saturday? With every blast of cold air and sprays of black rainwater I endured, these questions became ever more desperate. The nail salon was right on the corner of the next intersection. Dread slowly engulfed me as I got closer to this nail salon. The big neon “OPEN” sign, the essay writing advertisements taped to the door, and colorful promotions for Vietnamese music festivals. I stared hard at the dirty glass panes, trying to make out whoever or whatever was inside. A car horn was then followed by more horns. I kept staring. They got louder and louder, accompanied the shriek of rubber sliding on asphalt. I was jerked backwards. My arms flailed as it tried to regain balance. My head hit something hard. And then, black.
        
"Are you OK?"
"He's moving!"
"Quick! Go get the nurse!"
All around me, crowded 2 policemen, my parents, and a group of nurses each with a clipboard in hand. The policemen went first, asking me so many questions about what happened and were there any witnesses. My parents were next. They asked me a multitude of questions, too, but this time, they were more personal. "Are you hurt?" "Can you see me?" "Do you remember me?" At least, they didn't ask about why it happened near the nail salon. I had no business going there, and it was hard finding an excuse for why I would be at the nail salon. My parents had guessed that I was too tired to be answering their barrage of questions, so they luckily backed off. 


All of the people in that room now watched me expectantly. To do what? To faint? I closed my eyes, not wanting to feel watched anymore. The darkness only brought back memories of before the crash. Had I watched the nail salon so intently that I had veered off the bike path? The sound of my head bouncing off the windshield was the last thing I heard.


I opened my eyes again. They still watched me intently, like I was a lab specimen. I looked for the policemen to ask for what had happened, but they were gone. I suspected the only reason they had waited for me to wake up was to ask me the questions. When I couldn't provide an answer, they were gone in an instant. Policemen were not that nice and caring, after all. They weren't supposed to be, in the first place.


The thought of the massive hospital bills I would incur didn't cross my mind until later, after my parents had given me a "brush-over" to see that I was alright, and the nurses had briefed me on what would happen next. I didn't know how we were going to pay for this. It would be $10,000 at least. And we were living paycheck to paycheck. 


I could also tell that this problem didn't even cross my parent's mind until later in the day. They were perhaps too preoccupied with my problems. They cared too much about me. It was a weird thing for a son to say, of course, but who cares about my injuries when we most likely would be stuck in unpayable debt? 
I was a burden to my parents. That was the only true thing in my life right now. There were so many uncertainties that uncertainty was the only thing I could depend on. My parents were already working so hard, and now, they have to work even harder for a stupid wannabe superhero. I couldn't solve anything. What was I going to do at the nail salon anyway? Peer into the windows and look upon my parent's colleagues with...what? I had pity for them. But unfortunately, pity wasn't going to solve anything. 


I could work at an unskilled job. Maybe in a McDonalds or a clerk. But there was no way they would consider a 13 year old wearing tattered clothes to work. I could mow lawns. But there was no way I could garner enough money to pay even half of the hospital bills. I could, perhaps, work at a nail salon, just like my parents. The boss had no knowledge of ethics or labour laws, so it would be easy to get the job. The question, was, whether my parents would even consider it.
I took it to them at dinner. It was a surprise they even spared the time to have dinner with me, after what debt we must have incurred by my stupid mistake. I told them my idea of a punishment: working low-paid jobs. It seemed, by their silence, that they were receptive of the idea. But once I had finished, my dad had just laughed and said, "You seem to have a sense of guilt, son." And the conversation had just ended like that. Oddly, my confusion at his remark zipped my mouth shut. I didn't ask a further question. In fact, I didn't even know what question to ask. 
The safest way, I decided after pondering in my room, was not to do anything. I mean, the last time I did something, resulted in a catastrophic failure. So to do something now to resolve the failure would result in another catastrophic failure. So many catastrophic failures.




[a]Gets made fun of in school
Doesn’t have new clothing
On Lunar New Year, wears the traditional vietnamese clothing. Gets bullied- begs mom not to do it again. (doesn’t know that mom and dad worked day and night for that costume)
Slow transition into a normal culture. 
Doesn’t care much about parents.
Goes out to party, takes money left on the table. 
Parents find out, its actually money used to pay off debt. 
Get angry, son also gets angry.
Lunch, there’s a note. “I’m sorry” from mom.