Co[a]nflict: get parents to apply for welf[b]are (stigma by parents that[c] welfare is for homeless, cultural values, humility, shame)        


[d]
I could hear the Niagara's thunder of water before I could see it. I then could feel the cold mist of a combination of the 2 Great Lakes before I could see it. Then, the crowd of tourists opened up to the most majestic sight ever. All around me, except for the families cramped next to me on the railing, was an endless curtain of water dropping 60 feet down. This combination of Niagara’s thunderous noise, the cold mist of the 2 Great Lakes, and the majestic site, proved this vacation worthwhile. This was the dream vacation for us, me and my 2 parents. We had never had any vacations since we had moved to Canada. And for a while, the roar of tons of water crashing down deafened any worries I had. The muffled sound of a raspy cough then somehow managed to wrestle its way into the Niagara’s roar. I opened my eyes and looked around, searching for the source of this cough. I didn’t see the white waters crashing down onto Lake Ontario. The comforting deafening sound also disappeared. I only saw the yellow streetlights through my bedroom window. Another muffled cough fought its way through my shut bedroom doors and nestled itself into my ears, as if taunting me that my real life wasn’t a dream as I had dreamt. 
It was my dad’s routine midnight cough. I should have gotten used to it by now. No point pretending I was living a dream. You see, he and my mom are one of the many Vietnamese that slave day and night at a nail salon. Perhaps, calling the dump where they works a nail salon is a bit generous. Call it an acrylic gas chamber. Call it a street corner slave center. Call it whatever you want, but know that it is destroying my parents.
Another splitting cough was followed by the flick of a light switch and the sound of tap water running. I fell back onto my bed, and squeezed shut my eyes. My parents couldn’t continue like this. They would die. I remembered the time when I skipped doing dishes and passed it onto my parents. I remembered the time I biked past Main St and peered into the nail salon, seeing my parents’ face engrossed in someone’s dirty nails. I remembered waking up from my parent’s 1 AM coughs and getting mad at my parents. And now, it was happening again. Except now, I was mad at myself.
Why hadn’t I helped out my parents before it was too late? What freak would leave their parents even more work at home? I slammed the bed with as much force as I could muster. 
At first, it was from my heart. And then to my eyes. And then the tears came out. I shut my eyelids tight, and willed the tears to disappear. They streamed through my shut eyelids, streaking down my cheeks and splattering on my pillow. The sound of running water stopped. Then, a flick of a light switch, and the bed groaning under a new load. But my tears kept on streaking down the sides of my face. They stung like crazy. Each memory of my parents brought along with it new tears, and more regret. I didn’t sleep that night.
I pretended nothing had happened the night before. For breakfast, my mom cooked an omelette from a mini-stove brought from a yard sale. The 3 of us shared the omelette from a single plate. 
I knew the government had welfare programs. I knew we were eligible for large welfare benefits. But I also knew that my relatives hated people dependent on welfare. I had overheard them on the phone with my relatives.
“Our son is doing fairly well in school. Working at a nail salon is really good now. At least we have a decent paycheck to look forward to, now. Thanks for asking!” my dad said. I wanted to add, “Oh, and other from the ‘decent’ paycheck, we also have lung problems, sleepless nights, and midnight coughs to look forward to. Oh, and we don’t ever to get time to spend with our son. We are always working, but we have no idea how well he’s doing in school. Oh yeah, and thanks for asking!” I could feel the tears streaming up. If I said it, I was going to cry. I didn’t want to cry. So I didn’t say it.
“It’s good to hear that!” my aunt replied, “Don’t depend on welfare. Welfare is only for homeless failures, be hardworking and--” I couldn’t have ran faster down the stairs. I didn’t want to listen to anymore of her toxic advice. 
I had already asked my dad to consider the welfare option. At least, it would make our lives significantly better. In fact, we needed welfare, but my dad was firm in that welfare was for losers, and since we are not losers, we don’t need welfare. That was the end of the discussion, and the rest of dinner was held by a quiet friction between us. 
That was the few dinners I had with my parents, as they worked late on the other days. I regretted staying silent. 
My dad slumped off to watch TV, and my mom was on her phone. With nothing to do and no one to talk to, I finished the rest of my homework and went to bed. I prayed that I wouldn’t wake up from my dad’s coughs tonight. Not because I wanted a good night’s sleep, but because I didn’t want to cry again. 
In the morning, I got the sudden urge to do something--it was Saturday after all. I needed to do something about this situation.
I made sure my parents would not be at the nail salon, at least for anytime soon, and hopped on my bike. As I cruised down West 12th and turned right onto Main St, I still didn’t know what I would do once I got there. Every car that whizzed by me sent a wave of cold air and sprays of dirty rainwater onto my jacket. 
Would I just pretend that I was a customer? What if it was closed? Would they tell my parents that I was here? What would I say to my parents? That I biked for 20 minutes to the nail salon in the middle of fall on a Saturday? With every blast of cold air and sprays of black rainwater I endured, these questions became ever more desperate. The nail salon was right on the corner of the next intersection. Dread slowly engulfed me as I got closer to this nail salon. The big neon “OPEN” sign, the essay writing advertisements taped to the door, and colorful promotions for Vietnamese music festivals. I stared hard at the dirty glass panes, trying to make out whoever or whatever was inside. A car horn was then followed by more horns. I kept staring. They got louder and louder, accompanied the shriek of rubber sliding on asphalt. I was jerked backwards. My arms flailed as it tried to regain balance. My head hit something hard. And then, black.
        
"Are you OK?"
"He's moving!"
"Quick! Go get the nurse!"
All around me, crowded 2 policemen, my parents, and a group of nurses each with a clipboard in hand. The policemen went first, asking me so many questions about what happened and were there any witnesses. My parents were next. They asked me a multitude of questions, too, but this time, they were more personal. "Are you hurt?" "Can you see me?" "Do you remember me?" At least, they didn't ask about why it happened near the nail salon. I had no business going there, and it was hard finding an excuse for why I would be at the nail salon. My parents had guessed that I was too tired to be answering their barrage of questions, so they luckily backed off. 


All of the people in that room now watched me expectantly. To do what? To faint? I closed my eyes, not wanting to feel watched anymore. The darkness only brought back memories of before the crash. Had I watched the nail salon so intently that I had veered off the bike path? The sound of my head bouncing off the windshield was the last thing I heard.


I opened my eyes again. They still watched me intently, like I was a lab specimen. I looked for the policemen to ask for what had happened, but they were gone. I suspected the only reason they had waited for me to wake up was to ask me the questions. When I couldn't provide an answer, they were gone in an instant. Policemen were not that nice and caring, after all. They weren't supposed to be, in the first place.


The thought of the massive hospital bills I would incur didn't cross my mind until later, after my parents had given me a "brush-over" to see that I was alright, and the nurses had briefed me on what would happen next. I didn't know how we were going to pay for this. It would be $10,000 at least. And we were living paycheck to paycheck. 


I could also tell that this problem didn't even cross my parent's mind until later in the day. They were perhaps too preoccupied with my problems. They cared too much about me. It was a weird thing for a son to say, of course, but who cares about my injuries when we most likely would be stuck in unpayable debt? 
I was a burden to my parents. That was the only true thing in my life right now. There were so many uncertainties that uncertainty was the only thing I could depend on. My parents were already working so hard, and now, they have to work even harder for a stupid wannabe superhero. I couldn't solve anything. What was I going to do at the nail salon anyway? Peer into the windows and look upon my parent's colleagues with...what? I had pity for them. But unfortunately, pity wasn't going to solve anything. 


I could work at an unskilled job. Maybe in a McDonalds or a clerk. But there was no way they would consider a 13 year old wearing tattered clothes to work. I could mow lawns. But there was no way I could garner enough money to pay even half of the hospital bills. I could, perhaps, work at a nail salon, just like my parents. The boss had no knowledge of ethics or labour laws, so it would be easy to get the job. The question, was, whether my parents would even consider it.
I took it to them at dinner. It was a surprise they even spared the time to have dinner with me, after what debt we must have incurred by my stupid mistake. I told them my idea of a punishment: working low-paid jobs. It seemed, by their silence, that they were receptive of the idea. But once I had finished, my dad had just laughed and said, "You seem to have a sense of guilt, son." And the conversation had just ended like that. Oddly, my confusion at his remark zipped my mouth shut. I didn't ask a further question. In fact, I didn't even know what question to ask. 
The safest way, I decided after pondering in my room, was not to do anything. I mean, the last time I did something, resulted in a catastrophic failure. So to do something now to resolve the failure would result in another catastrophic failure. So many catastrophic failures.


Over time, I stopped worrying about the hospital bills. It was none of my problems anyways, and I couldn't do anything to solve it. I spent more of my time exploring the neighborhood and less spent grieving on what I thought now, was my parent's problem. And school was starting soon.
I was an immigrant out of many immigrants in that school. It was relieving to find out that there were many others who had struggled with English, who had no friends to console with, and who couldn't afford all the latest fashion trends. 
I beggged my mom to pack more Western foods and less of the Vietnamese food. My friends made fun of me because of them. She agreed.
I begged my mom to stop buying me the Vietnamese slippers that I had so adored back in Vietnam. I described to her the kind of sneakers I wanted. The store that had sold them was 1 hour away by bus, and I forced my mom to take her work day off to go get the sneakers for me. She got the wrong sneakers. 
I was enraged. 
"Why had you gotten me the wrong sneakers!" 
"These are brown! I don't want brown! I want white!"
"What is your problem?" The sneakers and the receipt dropped down to the floor. A bolded $98.50 flashed before my eyes. I couldn't stop myself as I flung the receipt at her, but it only flopped down along with the sneakers. The receipt had only traveled so far until spiraling down. I picked up the sneakers sprawled on the floor and caught the receipt and handed them back to her.
"Just get me the correct one." 
I didn't bother to think the trouble she would be through: if she had actually decided to follow my instructions, then she would have to take another day off work. I was too preoccupied with my anger. I banged my table with the bottom of my fist, knocking over a water bottle. For what, I didn't know. 
I had to go to school the next morning with my old flippers, the ones I had used back in Vietnam.
"Ha! Fat's too poor to avoid shoes!" They shouted across the hallway, loud enough for everyone to hear. 
"My real name is Phat." I grumbled, but the sound of my slippers slapping the hard concrete floor was so loud that I could barely hear myself.
They went up to me, and grabbed my loose slippers and ran away. I was stuck with a feet with socks and one with slippers now. 
"Hey! Give it back!" I was angry now. I couldn't grab it back from them—they were too strong and too quick. Plus, I couldn't run with slippers, nonetheless a missing slipper. 
I looked around in vain, expecting a magic angel to come up and save me. And at that moment, I remembered my mom. It was all because of her. Why couldn't she just follow my simple instructions? I flung the other slipper into the wall. 
"I don't want this Vietnamese crap!" 
I stepped on the slipper and grinded it against the ground. I hated this slipper. Why did it have to be this way?  The buckle on the left then broke. I was satisfied. But I kept destroying this little flipper. It was the source of all of my problems.  
The day had been off to a perfectly disastrous start. I was lucky they gave me back my slippers. I was also lucky they called me "Fat" instead of any nickname based off the fact that I was wearing a slipper. 
I came back after school ended to an empty home[revise]. A sigh of relief escaped. I didn't have to deal with Mom's endless questions about how my day was[plot hole-mom is working?]. I kicked off my slippers and slammed the door shut. The slippers managed to get stuck in the doorway. Frustrated, I opened the door and slammed it closed again, trying to break the slipper. It[the slipper] didn't budge.[e] 
Seeing the slipper contort to weird proportions, almost breaking but not yet, satisfied me. It was like my problems all summed up in one. The memory of my mom giving me the wrong sneakers popped into my mind again. It was because of her that my life was like this. Why couldn't we just be normal? 
My mom came home at 8:30. 
"Hello! Phat—Mom is home!" My mom called.
I pretended not to hear her. 
The clack of her shoes was followed by the creak of the stairs. Then, a knock on the door and I saw her. First, the wrinkled hand opening the door. Then, the smudged lenses of her glasses and her beaming face. Then, her rumpled black dress—the only one she had. And that was when I realized we were poor. 
"Phat!" She opened her arms and came in for a hug, as she usually does.
"How was school, today?"
"Pretty good," I was good at lying.
"You always say that. Give me a different answer. Only for today. Please."
"It's just good. There's nothing else to say." I gently pushed her away, hoping that it would encourage her to end the discussion. 
"Alright. See you at dinner in 30 minutes. I have a story to tell you, it's interesting. I promise."
Well, that didn't work out properly.
****
"So back in Vietnam, we were very poor, just like everybody else there. Everything we had, we treasured. Even little things like a bar of chocolate, we would examine it before eating. And how delicious it had tasted at that time." 
I had already heard this story many times over. She had repeated it almost weekly.
"But do you know the flipper that you wear to school?"
"Yes. The ugly red one, right?" I replied snarkily.
She continued on, unfettered by my remark. "It was actually your grandpa's, my father's, gift to me. But I already had flippers to wear, and it looked to new to be used in the dirty streets." I was transfixed now. "So I kept it in the original box. I had always had the temptation to use that slipper instead of my old one, which was uncomfortable and tattered. But I kept it for you. Do you like it?" 


I remembered my smile as the slipper almost broke as I crushed it against the door. I remembered me grinding the slipper in anger in the school hallway. I remembered throwing these slippers against my locker in anger. The slipper was not some nonsensical thing that I directed my anger at: it was the root of my problems. 


I also remember the wide smile as my mom gave it to me just weeks after we came to Canada, but before school had started, in a neatly wrapped box. I was smiling at that time too. The slipper was beautiful, and I too, thought it was too beautiful to risk going in the streets with it. How had I came from that to smiling as I destroyed the slipper? 
"Phat! Were you even listening to my story! You are only interested in the sneakers, right? You used to be such a good boy. Who are you now? You are not even Vietnamese anymore!" 
Her voice had raised to a shout now. She stared at me, as if looking for a response. I tried to muster one up to fill the silence, but my emotions had quelled any of my attempts. Why had I been this stupid! I ran out of the dining room, to find one slipper lying on the floor, the other upside down beside it. I picked it up: it was a thing of beauty. The scratches and tears down the middle were small enough: they didn’t matter at all now. I clutched them both in my hands. Something wet splattered on my left hand. Then on my right hand. I looked through my blurry eyes at the tears splashing down. I moved the slipper away, wary that it would get wet.
Out of the corner of my eyes, I could see my mom standing, staring intently at me. She didn’t know what I was going through.
Still holding the slippers tightly, I went up the stairs to my bedroom. The memories flashed back to me. How hard I had ground my foot on the slipper. How angry I had been about it. Just then, as I opened the door to my bedroom, I saw a big, brown plastic bag. Curious, I stepped inside and looked closer. Inside the bag was the pair of shoes I had wanted so much. It[f] was _____. I realized there that it was my mom’s present to me. She wanted to surprise me. 


It broke my heart. I dropped the flippers on the bed gently, and lifted the sneakers out. Inside one sole, was a handwritten note: Hope you enjoy this! Love, Mom.


I looked back at the slippers, lying on my bed. I didn’t know what to think. Regret had filled every inch of my mind, and it shut down whatever thoughts I had. I couldn’t believe it. I looked out at the hallway, through the cracks of my bedroom door. I could hear the pans banging and the kitchen faucet running, a sure sign of my mom cleaning up after my unfinished meal. Why was she so nice? I wished that she had been meaner. Perhaps, shout back when I got angry at her for buying the wrong sneakers. That would have made me feel better right now. 


After a round of sobbing, I put the new sneaker in the far corner of my closet. I didn’t need it anymore. I couldn’t see why I had wanted it so much. I took my treasured slipper down the stairs and put it on the shoe rack, so I could wear it to school tomorrow. 


Gentle to prevent the edges from scraping the sidewalk, I skipped around the puddles on the way to school. My slipper could not touch anything dirty on the sidewalk. Halfway to school, I felt something loosen on the slipper. One of the joints where I had previously ground my feet in anger had worn out. I limped the rest of the way to school, grimacing each time as the joint became looser and looser. This joint was my family, my culture. 


As I opened the door towards the school, my slipper flopped on the concrete floor. It would be a miracle if I could make it to my locker before they saw my slippers. Just then, their eyes met mine, before shifting to my tattered slipper. 


“Phat’s got it again with those dank slippers! Ha!” 
“Those slippers look close to breaking under Fat’s weight!” 


I hurried to my locker, not wanting to bear their jeers anymore. They didn’t know that my slipper was my culture. It seemed, however, that walking faster had only made the loud slapping sound of my slipper and the floor even louder. However loud my slippers had been, however, their insults were always a level louder.


I couldn’t handle it anymore. I snapped around, turning on the toes of my slipper. They were right behind me, one in front, and his followers loosely stood behind him. They smiled, finally quiet, as if waiting to see what I could do. 


But I couldn’t bring myself to do it. I wasn’t that kind of person. Would my mom have liked this? I didn’t want to bore into her mind the fact that I was a bad child again. She probably had no notion of what a ‘bad child’ was—only vague pointers to what her parents had warned her about. To her, I was never Vietnamese, because all Vietnamese were supposed to be good children.




The slipper finally broke on [date]. My care for the slipper had diminished slowly as my mom alienated me, presumably from the previous incident. It was like any new shoe or toy I had gotten: I was obsessed with it for a week, but then after that, I had treated it like normal. And only when the slipper broke did I regret not treasuring the slipper like I had used to.


[g]
When I showed it to my mom after school, she only huffed and looked away. I stood there, confused, as I had thought that she would be mad. She now was typing away at her computer, couldn’t care less about the broken slipper. 
“What?” She turned to look at me, clearly annoyed that I was standing behind her back. 
“No...Nothing.” I quickly turned away to avoid her stare. But still, I couldn’t bring my legs to move. 


What must she have thought of me? 


The days passed, and then the weeks passed, and then the months passed without any more mentions of the slipper from my mom. But nonetheless, it still sat there in one corner of my room, still a little bit dirty from the wear and tear from walking on the streets, with the straps flopping out, exposing the insides of the slipper. I had always looked at it, but never once touched it apart from that day in which it broke. 


But no matter how hard I had tried to forget it, the occasional gust of air would send its straps flopping and hitting the base of the slipper, as if enticing me to notice it. Tap. Tap. Tap, it would call. But I could not bring myself to move the slipper to storage—for doing that brought its own taboo of hiding my own culture. 


**




I h[h]ad bought 3 plane tickets to the Niagara Falls for my parents, as a present for their 65th birthday. More, I was entranced with the money I got from a lucrative 40 hour job, a “major upgrade from a nail salon slave” in my dad’s words when I phoned him about my new job. I had bought the tickets as a secret gift for my parents. I felt like being a good (child)/(son)/


I slammed the door open, and turned towards the window, where I had originally kept the slipper. Nothing was there, except for a pile of old, rusted nails. They had torn the carpet too, and only the underlying wooden floor, laden with nails and wood chips, was left. I looked desperately for the slipper. All I knew was that it was red, stained by some dark spots. And, of course, the fact that it was broken. Because of me. 


I opened the wardrobe, and still, only found old pieces of wood, presumably neglected there by the demolitionist. 


Oh! Gosh! I was mad at myself. Too busy with the stupid school applications, interning, and finding a job. I didn’t even think once about my mom, or my parents. I slammed the door open and looked down the hallway, to find only strewn carpets littered with the occasional household item that would spark old memories: the blue, plastic, engraved “Made in China” hair comb, or, perhaps, the unsolved rubik’s cube that occasionally went missing. I carefully navigated across the hallway, making sure to avoid the nails poking out, to my parent’s room. 


I searched every single corner of the room, to find a bland, grey Rubbermaid box. It was pristine, which was hardly a word to describe a grey Rubbermaid container. But in the context of my situation, and surrounded by dust and neglected items, it sparked my hope. 


I opened the box, grimacing as a cloud of dust rose up to meet my nose. In there, I could make out the broken slipper lying on top of a plastic bag. I picked it out. 


Under there, was a normal looking plastic bag, of course, fettered by the normal wear and tear that plagues everything. I opened the bag, curious to find what was inside. 


It had seemed forever, as I struggled to untangle the plastic bag. I could, however, feel what was inside: a hard, cardboard box. My hands trembled as I unraveled the box. I could already guess what was inside. It was a shoebox.


It wasn’t the glowing shoe that I had always dreamed of as a 14 year old kid. Now, it was only a normal looking, black shoe that had outlived its time. I still could see the receipt snuggled between the 2 shoes, in case I didn’t want it. She had known me so well.


And then, I wondered: why hadn’t she given it to me earlier? I clearly had expressed my liking 
[a]make the relationship between mom and son before school starts really good, before it starts to deteriorate after school starts
[b]talk about niagara falls at the beginning: dream about it, but hint from the parent's reaction that they are not rich enough to go
[c]rant, "be like white parents."
[d]Gets made fun of in school
Doesn’t have new clothing
On Lunar New Year, wears the traditional vietnamese clothing. Gets bullied- begs mom not to do it again. (doesn’t know that mom and dad worked day and night for that costume)
Slow transition into a normal culture. 
Doesn’t care much about parents.
Goes out to party, takes money left on the table. 
Parents find out, its actually money used to pay off debt. 
Get angry, son also gets angry.
Lunch, there’s a note. “I’m sorry” from mom.
[e]note: change slippers to be a gift in Canada
[f]perhaps, make the protagonist see the plastic bag before he gets to the slippers. gets distracted by the bag, and then sees the sneakers in it
[g]add section worrying about tirade at home
[h]funeral, then goes back home to find missing artifacts