How do people gain power over others?

        In this world nowadays, power is required to do many thing and command many people. In fact, many thing are governed by the power that a single person has, such as the president of the united states of america. He is trusted by a lot of people, and therefore, he has a lot of power over many different people. There are also many different other ways to gain power over other people. One such way is to build their trust from the ground up. This involves a lot of honesty and responsibility, because as the old saying goes (or new saying), more power and freedom means more responsibility and work and chores to do. 
        Honesty is the first step in gaining power and leadership over others, because people will only trust and follow other people’s leadership only if they trust them. In addition, it is very impossible, or next to impossible, to build up enough honesty so that people start trusting one person’s leadership in a short amount of time, like 2 or 3 days. It has to be built up over a very long period of time, or else people will not follow you. In addition, if one gains someone elses’ trust fast, then they will feel manipulated by a stranger that they do not know very well. However, sometimes, honesty can build up very quickly because of a person’s first impression. For example, when I first attended the GDPT meeting, the leader was very impressed with me and a few weeks later, assigned me as the leader of a team. Many times, it takes a very long time for them to be a leader of a team, but I just got it in a few weeks! It must be the first impression that I showed:fluent at Vietnamese and responsible.
        Power can also be gained by having a lot of positive or good reputation. At that time, one eliminates the need to slowly build trust, because the trust is already built from one’s reputation. For example, Barack Obama does not need to build trust from other people because he has already built it and he is very famous. He is very well trusted and very few people will ever doubt his power. Our reputation is formed by other people’s thoughts of us. If other people think we are bad, then our reputation is bad, and vice versa. 
        As you can see, power is very difficult to have and get. It solely depends on building other people’s trust, then one can have their power. I believe honesty is the only thing required to get someone’s obeyance and your power, but there are many other factors involved when someone has power. It comes with great responsibility, meaning that people who commonly abuse power will not get power, because they cannot build up enough trust.