Everybody works, right? Well, there are many different types of work, and some people even like work. I am pretty sure that most people work for money, but I like the idea of working for joy instead of working for money. If you like typing and improving as you type, you may want to be a secretary since it is best for you, just typing all day long. In my opinion, working hard is going to get you outstanding results, rather than just working lazily. 
Before my generation and my parent’s generation and many generations before, our ancestors had worked very hard until the Industrial Revolution, or even after the Industrial Revolution. They worked all day long, and it was not that easy as you think it would. At that time, they had no electricity, no light bulbs, no anything, except for their stone or wood made tools. Also, they had to hunt for their own food, because their were no stores for them to shop in, and there were no pistols for them to shoot. Nowadays, we do not usually hunt for animals such as elephants because they are protected by law and governments, as far as I know. However, if we do hunt for such animals, we will use shotguns and maybe lasers instead of bow and arrows or by hand. Also, for all the native groups and tribes that are living near the ice caps, which is the North Pole and the South Pole, they have to dress warmly, when they do not even have the outline of the human body, or the materals. So, I think that our ancestors had worked really hard to make the world as fancy as it is nowadays. In the modern world, we have machines and government welfare, so we do not have to worry about anything, but the natives in the ancient times were at a great risk either because of dangerous animals, or other things.
Anyways, I felt really sorry for our ancestors because they had worked so hard to get the world at this age, but almost no one cares about them. Also, some of the native groups that once had been very powerful is dying out because of growing countries and ignorance to them. Look at what we have here in the modern world, computers, cellphones, lamps, light bulbs, tablets, electricity, cars, all those stuff that our ancestors do not have, and we are not taking great care of them.