PRACTICE ESSAY 13
Are reward systems, like grades, prizes, and work bonuses, effective means of controlling human behavior?
 
We tend to think that rewarding people for doing good things is always better than punishing them for doing bad things. We often fail, however, to realize that rewards can be oppressive, too. Giving someone a prize for doing something he or she would do anyway often makes that person feel manipulated. What’s worse, competition for prizes, which invariably occurs when rewards are doled out systematically, often breeds resentment and division rather than cooperation.
 
BRAINNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNSTOrmMMMM
Position:not really
Research proven-two groups of people were asked to do a puzzle one group was paid to do it, and the other was not. When the first group was asked to do it again, most of them refused, as they just saw it was money, not fun. But in the second group, most of them chose to do it again, because they thought it was fun.
                Conclusion:
                When NO award, people think it is for fun and will continue doing it, but when YES award, people will not think fun and will just do it for the award, especially children
--people will continue to do that because they think it is fun
However, whenever i not get award or yes get i don’t feel manipulated or sad, i just receive as a fact, or an event
Many people feel demotivated instead of motivated to do better when they get a bad grade, etc. Can also make them arrogant
                DA REALLL ESSAYyyyy
                For a very long time, I have been influenced by the awards and punishments I have received, mainly from my parents, but some from other sources as well. Over the years, I have seen how much my life has changed from those awards: positively and negatively. However, they have influenced many other people too-some feel different, and some feel the same. Positive reinforcement, or reward systems, seemingly appear to be very helpful, but in truth, it can be very detrimental to an individual’s growth. It can often demotivate and make people feel manipulated to do something; therefore, not trying their best.
                Positive reinforcement and awards don’t necessarily do what they are supposed to do. It seems as if they are encouraging people to do good things, but they have some detrimental and very bad side-effects. It can make the participant do such good deeds only for certain awards, and may not continue doing it in the long term. For example, a recent study was conducted between two groups of people. One group was asked to do a puzzle, and after that, they would be given a prize. The other group was just asked to do the same puzzle. In the end, when the first group was asked if they would like to do it again, but without awards, most of them answered no. In contrast, most of the second group answered yes to the question, because instead of thinking like a chore, they think that it is more of a fun activity. Therefore, when people are not given awards for things they might do, it makes it seem less fun, and more work.
                The prizes can also have emotional effects on the participant. They can feel arrogant when they have won prizes, and may not try as hard on the other contests. This effect can also affect the participant’s friends and other personal relationships too. On the other hand, a participant losing can also greatly demotivate them for trying other opportunities. For example, my brother’s friend Ashlets participated in a recent math contest, but he did not get the position he wanted to get. Shortly after that, he got really demotivated and depressed, and did not try the other math contests. I strongly believe that he could do very well on the later math contests, but because of his demotivation, he chose not to. This is why many contests have bad effects on the losing participants, often because they get demotivated and stop trying.
                Positive reinforcement, or reward systems, have been looked at as if they are beneficial. When people get bad results/awards or they get no award, often will be worse because makes them think that they are not good enough. Often happens in women-don’t think they are expected to get award or be top place.