The Olympics Opening Ceremony is really awesome and cool. However, what you do not know is that there could be glitches and technical difficulties at any time during the ceremony. For example, in the Sochi 2014 Winter Olympics Ceremony, only four of five floating rings expanded. The plan for the opening for the olympics opening ceremony was. Also, what I mean by floating is the Olympic rings are held by strings that are almost invisible to the naked human eye. Anyways, as a result of the glitch in the olympics opening ceremony, the International Olympic Committee defends the act of rehearsing the ceremony on television or any other broadcasting devices. 


Many members of the International Olympics Committee have defended the act of broadcasting the glitch in the Olympics Opening Ceremony. The five Olympic rings were supposed to expand, and explode all at the same time as if it had been a fireworks show. Also, another bad thing that happened was when an Olympics Opening Ceremony torch holder tweeted an insult about President Barack Obama of the United States. As a result of the glitch in the Olympics Opening Ceremony, the russian state television cut the part where the fifth ring did not expand and explode. Instead, the Russian State TV inserted the recorded images of what was supposed to happen. However, not all of the broadcasting stations in Russia and around the world used that video footage. Some television broadcasting companies used the video footage that the Russian State TV offered, but some preferred not to, said the International Olympic Committee spokesman Mark Adams. Also, while the Olympics Opening Ceremony was operating, three time figure skating gold medalist Irina was tweeting a picture of President Barack Obama and his wife, whose name is Michelle. The picture not only included the president of United States and his wife, but also included a banana in front. Sochi Olympics officials defended that. Irina Rodnina is a very highly respected woman and figure skater for Russia. If Rodnina had not tweeted the picture, she would have not been in this situation.


As you can see, glitches can happen anywhere, and anytime. Since it is very important to cover up the glitches on rehearsing shows, the Russian State TV uploaded another footage that showed the fifth ring explode. Also, many officials said that the Olympics has nothing to do with politics. Rodnina was a very highly respected figure skater and a three time gold medalist. The image that Rodnina tweeted was later taken down, but supported the picture by tweeting “ Freedom of speech is freedom”. I would rather do nothing than tweet Freedom of speech is freedom. I hope that the number of glitches will be reducing in the future olympics. I wish that there could be no more glitches in the future.