There are many examples of poverty in Asia as well as Africa, but some of the most obvious examples are from china. China is a country located in East Asia. It is also known as the People’s Republic of China. China is also considered to be the most populous country in the world, with a population of over one point thirty five hundredth billion. As a result of the increasing population of poverty, some people have managed to get to North America, also called as the Golden Mountain. People believed that life there was a fortune, and they would do anything, even put their lives in danger, to get to North America. I am going to talk about one example of immigrants risking their lives to immigrate to North America. 


In china, many people suffer from poverty, so they try to immigrate to the Golden Mountain, which is the United States of America. 


Ming Zhou, who was being in grade 12 while his parents were asking him if he would like to go to the United States and work and send back money for his family to survive. He told CBC that part of him was reluctant to go, but the other part told him to go. He finally came to the decision that he would go to the United States of America and work for his family. After Ming came to the decision, he had decided that he would travel by smuggler’s boat. Smuggler’s boat is a boat that smuggles people into wealthier lands such as Europe or North America. The smuggler’s boats are leaded by snakeheads, a gang in China. The snakeheads receive all of the money from Chinese people who want to get to wealthier lands on their boat. However, there was still a risk involved in the boat: snakeheads had weapons. Their weapons were killing machines, which includes guns, clubs, spikes, and many more. In addition, there was always the fear of getting thrown overboard. The ship Black Dragon carried one hundred and thirty people, and that includes Ming. When the Black Dragon reached the coasts of BC, former RCMP police Ken Ackles was shocked to discover that the ship was soaked with urine, body smelling odour, and feces. The former RCMP officer said that he had smelt sewer plants smell better than the immigrants themselves aboard the ship.


I felt really sad for the need to travel to US.