Staying at a friend’s house is very fun for me, and I am pretty sure that it is fun for other people too. Usually, when my family and I go to a friend’s house, we stay up pretty late, to make the most of the trip. However, that was not true when we went to the United States to visit someone’s house because we do not want to stay up to late, since the trip was pretty far, and other people were going out too.
Yesterday, I and my family went to the United States to play at a friend’s house. The day before that day, I was really excited, since going anywhere that has a party sense in it makes me think that there is going to be a lot of fun happening there. So by the time we got to the house, I was super tired from being in the car. However, the thought of playing excited me, so I quickly went in the house and put my shoes outside near the door. First, it was a bit hard to get to know other people and their behaviors. However, it got more fun when we knew each other. When we were playing Wii, we took turns playing the best game, Tanks. However, we got bored of it very quickly because there was nothing to do, except Wii, which was also boring when you have played it a lot already. Therefore, we decided to play this game, where one person hides something, and all the other people have to find it. It was fun at first, but got boring. However, on the last round, Tailor, touched the water in the toilet, which made everyone run for their life, including me. So I went to a bathroom, and locked the door so nobody including Tailor could get inside. However, when I opened the door to take a peek, I saw one guy standing near Tailor. Curious, I decided to go outside, where he touched me. I figured that all the other people got touched by him.
Staying at someone’s house has always been a fun thing for me since I was born. You get to do fun stuff that you do not normally get to do in your house, such as playing Wii. However, not only staying at someone’s house is fun, but hosting your own party is also a fun experience.