Henry Nguyen
I and My Brother
        Brothers always have similarities and differences with each other. I and my brother have many things in common with each other, as well as things that differ. We both like tennis and chess because tennis increases our physical health and chess increases our mental health. However, we also have many differences. My brother is better than me in many aspects, but if I compare myself with him when he was in grade 5, I would be way better than him. Although we are brothers, and brothers have many things in common, we also have large differences. 
We both dislike certain foods; like tennis, chess, and badminton; and almost always lose things that are not attached to our bodies such as keys. Ever since we came to Canada in 2010, my brother disliked the Vietnamese dumplings that our mother usually made because he experienced headaches after he had eaten the dumplings that my mom made. A few years later, I also started to dislike the Vietnamese food. Although I used to like the food very much before, after a day of eating a ton of those dumplings, I got sick of it. In addition, we both like to play tennis, chess, and badminton. Whenever we have free time, I would go to the tennis courts to play tennis, or play chess if it is raining outside. We also have a habit of losing things such as keys to our house. When my brother was young, he lost a house key that he kept. While my family and I searched for the missing key, I kept repeating to myself that the fact that we lose things that are not attached to our bodies is true. 
        Despite these similarities, we still have some differences such as the foods that we like/dislike, our strengths and weaknesses, where we study, and our size. Although my brother dislikes bun bo, it is my favorite food so far. He used to like bun bo before he turned 12. After he ate a bowl of bun that had some meats that he did not like, he began to hate it. In addition, spaghetti is my most hated food whereas it is my brother’s favorite food. Unlike my brother, who hates food after a while of eating it, I loathe spaghetti since I first tasted it. Since my brother is older, he is better than me in many aspects such as chess, tennis, and badminton. This is because he has more experience and is stronger than me. Where we go to school also differs. I go to UHill Elementary because I am young; in contrast, my brother goes to a secondary school because he is old. My brother is also bigger and stronger than me because I am younger than him. 
        Although my brother is older than me, we not only have similarities, but we also have differences. We like and loathe many different foods, some of which are the same, but the majority are different. We also like tennis very much, but my brother is better than me in tennis. However, if I compare my brother when he was in grade 5 with me, I would certainly be better than him in many aspects.