Today was a Sunday, and Sundays meant shopping for the week’s food, lounging at the coffee shop, and my favourite, late mornings. 
I woke up with a throbbing headache despite not consuming any alcohol the night before. The sun shone through partially frosted windows and glared in my eyes. A “11:37 AM” showed through the harsh glare of the sun. I struggled against the temptation to pull the sheets to cover my eyes and go back to blissful sleep. But I had work to do today. 
        My morning routine felt better as the morning headache wore off, and soon, I was in the grocery store pushing a shopping cart up the fruit aisle. Amongst the piles of scallions and confusing neon-colored discount signs, an old TV showed a line of police cars, and underneath, the banner read, “32 DEAD AND OVER 300 INJURED IN 3 BOMBINGS IN BRUSSELS.” I ignored the TV. Probably just another melodramatic story. 
        Another TV hung to the right of the entrance, and directly faced the people waiting in line. There was still the same story, but the TV now featured a different image of a collapsed airport terminal. The person in front shook his head and muttered “It’s always the Muslims.” 
        It was the same story at the coffee shop: a bunch of folks gathered around the TV in the corner, discussing and speculating what had happened. But soon, that conversation turned into an ensemble of rants about deporting Muslims and banning mosques. 
        Sure, terrorist attacks are  
Personal element: watching TV, everywhere see terrorist attacks. Was terrified. Show increasing state of paranoia as terrorism coverage increases.
Went into a local grocery shop, and saw the giant headlines “32 DEAD AND MORE THAN 300 INJURED IN BRUSSELS ATTACKS.” 
Went into a coffee shop, and overheard parts of the radio over the noise: “These 3 bombers are part of the same terrorist group that committed the Paris shootings… the city is under tight lockdown, but metros will continue running a reduced service and schools will remain open.” 
I had generally not paid much attention to the news. It was too depressing. 
When I finally arrived home with a bag of groceries for the week and a steaming cup of coffee, the voice of a news anchor greeted me once again. A quick glance at the TV told me that this was another story on the recent attack. Ugh. I finally decided to heed some attention to the news anchor. The story must be important if I see it everywhere, right?
        “Part of the Islamic State, the terrorist group responsible for the Paris shootings, 3 extremist jihads have bombed the Zaventem airport and Maelbeek metro station. Stay tuned as we try to piece together the details of this attack.”
        


Global element: How constant TV coverage of terrorism gets us all terrified, invalidates democracy.