Television and Terrorism: Partners in Crime


Today was a Sunday, and Sundays meant shopping for the week’s food, lounging at the coffee shop, and my favourite, late mornings. 
I woke up with a throbbing headache despite not consuming any alcohol the night before. The sun shone through partially frosted windows and glared in my eyes. A “11:37 AM” showed through the harsh glare of the sun. I struggled against the temptation to pull the sheets to cover my eyes and go back to blissful sleep. But I had work to do today. 
        My morning routine felt better as the morning headache wore off, and soon, I was in the grocery store pushing a shopping cart up the fruit aisle. Amongst the piles of scallions and confusing neon-colored discount signs, an old TV showed a banner that read, “32 DEAD AND OVER 300 INJURED IN 3 BOMBINGS IN BRUSSELS.” I ignored it. TV was usually just mindless banter.
        Another TV hung to the right of the entrance, right in view as I stood in the checkout line. There was still the same story, but the TV now featured a different image of a collapsed airport terminal. The person in front shook his head and muttered “It’s always the Muslims.” 
        It was the same story at the coffee shop: a bunch of folks gathered around the TV in the corner, discussing and speculating what had happened. But soon, as the TV reporter moved into how the 3 suspects were Muslims, that conversation turned into an ensemble of rants about deporting Muslims and banning mosques. 
        After managing to get by the crowd around the TV and sitting through gridlock traffic, I turned on the TV only to be greeted by the same story of how 3 Muslim terrorists managed to blow up an airport terminal and a metro station, and ended with the reporter’s optimistic question: “Could your city be their next target?” 
        Sure, the media should cover terrorist attacks, but to exploit these attacks to garner viewers and boost ratings is an outright neglect of democracy in favor of profits. The terror from terrorism coupled with television’s unparalleled ability to make its viewers seize up in fear are a godsend to the terrorists, whose original goal was, indeed, to make people seize up in fear. 
        What if we treated terrorism like a disease, except that it kills only 300 people per year? Could we justify spending $150 billion on a disease that kills 300 people per year? The government allocates only 2 billion dollars on a disease that kills 700 000 people every year, yet they readily allocate $150 billion on something that kills only 300 per year. The government must not be the sole contributors to this stupidity—we must also look towards the media.
        What would happen when all the news stations compete to produce the most terrifying, sensationalized, and shocking news segment? What if we add in a recent terrorist attack in a major Western city to that mix of media sensationalism? The answer to these questions are our current terrorism policies. 
        Fears about terrorism are amplified from TV’s competition to make their viewers scared, from MSNBC’s tradition of replaying 9/11 footage to CNN’s 24 Hour Fear Network. When people are scared, they tend to support outrageous policies like building a border wall. 
        Perhaps, it could be said terrorists and television are partners in crime. Terrorism provides a story for television to incorporate into their sensationalism agendas, while television hypes and spreads the initial fear that terrorism creates.