“Champions aren’t made in gyms. Champions are made from something they have deep inside them: a desire, a dream, a vision. They have to have last-minute stamina, they have to be a little faster, they have to have the skill and the will. But the will must be stronger than the skill” - Muhammad Ali. 


Are champions from the skill or the passion that they have?


To me, being successful in every aspect of life requires hard work, skill, and practice. This rule applies to everything in life, regardless of what  you pursue or your personality. Although many people have reached perfection without all three of those components, they are very rare and special. However, there is another important factor in determining the success a person has when pursuing something:motivation. Without motivation, a person with extraordinary talent in a field but no motivation to transform that talent into skill is not successful at all.
        When I was young, I often loathed math-I hated it more than any other subject. My parents continually encouraged me to learn more math and complete the exercises that they gave me. As months turned into years of learning math, I was beginning to doubt my earlier thought about this being useless. My parents were careful not to let my math talent diminish. As more and more people and friends started recognizing my extraordinary mathematical ability,  I began to respect and thank my parents for their continuous aid in helping me to nurture this talent that I had. 
If my parents had not forced me through the unforgiving years of hard-work, my talent would just wither like a dying flower due to neglect. If I did not have the motivation, the desire, the dream, to finish and support my talent, if my parents neglected my ability in mathematics, I would not have the skill in math that I have today.
        The talent is just a seed, a beginning, we have to develop it for it to grow into something more usable and skillful. Without care and hard-work, the seed will not be useful at all. Therefore, even if we have a lot of talent, it would still be worthless if we don’t nurture the talent to transform it into skill. This requires a lot of motivation. You can only use the talent to its full potential if you have motivation to nurture it as you go along.