In “Song,” Donne addresses his lover providing reasons for his departure. Speaking in an enthusiastic tone to his lover, Donne tries to reassure her that there is nothing to worry about his departure, and in five stanzas, gives us a complete picture of their intimate relationship. 


Donne addresses his lover’s presumably first concern that he is leaving because he does not love her, but rather because of a business trip. The other primary concern of any lover would be that their SO is leaving to find another love, but Donne also refutes that, saying “I do not go, For weariness of thee, Nor in hope the world can show A fitter love for me.” 


Donne follows with another cheesy argument in the second stanza of being faster and as unfluctuating as the sun. He compares his travels and return to the sun being gone yesternight, but still having gone back today. With overflowing confidence, Donne thinks himself better than the sun he had just praised, and brags that he “shall make speedier journeys” than the sun. This brag is not to be seen as serious, but rather a light hearted comment to ease his lover’s downcast mood. 


The fourth stanza has another metaphor to reassure Donne’s lover. Associating his lover’s sighs and cries with the pain in his body serves to establish the fact that they are one, and simply leaving for a short while wouldn’t change anything.


However cheesy Donne’s arguments or prose may be, I still think this poem is a worthwhile read of a cute relationship between two lovers. Rather than taking these arguments seriously, I had read them as if they were made light heartedly, half-jokingly—perhaps, to poke fun at the lover’s unreasonable worries. Reading this poem in a light-hearted manner makes it more enjoyable, as well as reveals more about the couple’s intimate relationship. By saying such cheesy poetry without any trace of hesitation, Donne clearly shows the intimacy of his relationship, as only couples who are really close would be comfortable with acting childish in front of the other.