There are many things that Google has made it easier to live in comfort. So far, the company has created email, cloud storage, self driving cars, smart glasses and many more. However, Google does not think that is the finale, it thinks that it is just the beginning of the technology era. Google bought Nest, a company that makes thermostats and smoke detectors. Many of the company’s customers have the suspicion that Google is trying to take control of their digital life. As technology evolves, everything you want to do is just a click of a button away, such as checking emails, getting from one place to another, and searching for directions on the road. As a final step, Google have finally purchased Nest! Since most of its customers are confused by this latest move that Google made, Tony Fadell explains why he sold Nest to Google. 


        There are many different types of gadgets that Google had made before it bought Nest. I am thinking that one day, all of Google’s gadgets, such as Gmail, Google Drive, Google+, smart glasses, Google Maps, and the Google Search Engine, will link itself together. What I mean by that is if you have new unread emails, then your self driving car along with your smartphone and smart glasses will notify you. Nevertheless, it will take a lot of time and effort to build the system, and it will also take a lot of time to set up which machine do you want to notify you. 


        Google’s latest move, buying the company Nest, have raised some risks about google collecting more of their data. However, as long as Google is a trustworthy company, their customers will not leave them for good. If Google had made its customers mistrust it, they would not be so famous right now. 


        Tony Fadell told CNN that Nest is a very good company. Nest’s products are based on complex and clever equations that allows it to track and manage a human’s schedule. How Nest’s devices work is that on your first day of using it, it records what temperature you would set at a certain time of a day, then after a week of using it, it automatically knows and sets itself. In comparison to other thermostats, I must say that the Nest thermostats are better, because of its convenience and easiness to use. 


        After all, Google is really trying to take control of your digital life.