More scholarships and education opportunities to poorer countries
Equal access to education everywhere
No matter how the media bashes our education system, it is always better than the ones in the other 99% of the world. 
America is the greatest nation on Earth—debating that notion is only an exercise for the big American ego. 
Introduction: the einstein passes by, the shakespeare buys lunch, and the picasso mops the floor. Or, perhaps, a more realistic scenario would be the pizza man who dropped out of college to pay for his parents debt, the aspiring writer whose only writing are scribbles in a journal because of everything else she has to do (work?), and the future car mechanic whose only experience with art was filling in colouring books in kindergarten.


No matter how trash our own media portrays our own society, it does one thing correctly, and that is using youth potential to the fullest extent. There are a multitude of scholarships and programs designed to harness talent and transform them into winning Nobel prizes or professors. 




But how about the Einsteins of Bangladesh and the Shakespeares of Vietnam? Perhaps, going to a lesser, albeit more realistic, extent, the doctors and lawyers who never even find their way to a textbook. Do we just ignore them as if they had never existed, as if we are content with acknowledging that USA is the best country and doing nothing else. Can they claim themselves such a high honour if they are willing to let these Einsteins and Shakespeares of the world pass by like night and day? 


While fixing this problem of educational opportunities and access in the real world is much more difficult, and involves solving a plethora of other problems first. In this fictional world, however, from a peaceful home with endless opportunities to dream, I can only imagine how better the world would be. 


For this to be a reality, a scientific world where everyone can contribute, we need strong nations to stop indulging in their greatness and help struggling nations out. Because for every child, there is a miniscule chance that they will become the next Einstein or Shakespeare, or the next nobel prize winner. Currently, however, most of these Nobel prize winners are white and from the West. To believe that the other three quarters of the world is simply undeserving of a Nobel prize or lacks talent is the height of the Western ego. 


How to go about doing it:


First, peace and stability. Prerequisite, because any advances made beyond these two, if they are nonexistent, will become reversed. Hard to achieve in countries plagued by wars whose causes are instilled in the culture.


These problems are primarily caused by poverty—lack of money. To solve this problem, we cannot avoid circumventing this underlying problem of needs, which can only be solved by money. The reason these Einsteins of the world go lost into farming and electricians are because the state doesn’t have enough excess money to dedicate to making the world greater, as all of the money is spent trying to survive. 


The natural progression of humanity automatically leaves education and the sciences last—rightly so as all of the other needs have greater priority (e.g. food, housing, economic security, …). They first involve sorting out political creases and deeper problems. Claiming these problems have less priority than education is absurd, as many of the problems that need to be solved before education involve life and death, and bring in far more consequences than a substandard education system. However, these all require significant amount of resources only a government could amass and use. In addition, they are heavily tied to politics, which requires lots of effort. 


Education is significant, but it is also easily manageable with low resources and is not tied heavily to politics. The benefits of this would be significant, partly because we will have much more representation of developing countries in academia, but more significantly, the progress of the country will speed up naturally due to a more educated populace. 


We can help spawn more gifted programs at an early age, and capture their talent before it disappears. Once we wait until high school or the college years, when students will really have the first chance to show their talent, it is too late, because the only ones that last so long are those with really good parents or with lots of money.  
Because for every moment we are delaying, an Einstein retires to his farm, a Shakespeare sweeps the street, a potential Nobel Prize Winner becomes a cashier, and a new advance to humanity slips away.


__________________________________________________________


An Einstein runs by me, chasing after a ragged soccer ball, turns around, and swings his leg as hard as he could to send the ball flying back to his friends, all wearing ragged clothes and from ragged houses. I buy bread and breakfast from a corner stall, run by a mother and a future Shakespeare, who hands me the Vietnamese sub wrapped in old newspaper with big glaring eyes and small fingers. I get mad at the dad on the scooter with two children, one of them the future Euler and the other a future Picasso, squished behind him, for crossing a red light.
Of all these people, and of all the other poor children in stalls and roads they should not be in, if I look hard enough, I am sure to find a Shakespeare, or an Einstein, or a Picasso, hidden somewhere in at least one of these children. But to the casual observer, who can’t see past their poverty, they are just another group of soccer schoolchildren who should be studying, another obedient girl who will grow up just to sell bread at street side stalls just like her mothers, and another red light runner who will be caught one day. 
There are many more Nobel prize winners and Pulitzer prize winners in us, and the competition is to see who can last the longest in the face of poverty one way and domestic issues. In high school, it is peer pressure and drugs. And only after these inner Shakespeares and Einsteins have survived past high school, can they shine in the probing light of academia.