An Einstein runs by me, chasing after a ragged soccer ball, turns around, and swings his leg as hard as he could to send the ball flying back to his friends, all wearing ragged clothes and from ragged houses. I buy bread and breakfast from a corner stall, run by a mother and a future Shakespeare, who hands me the Vietnamese sub wrapped in old newspaper with big glaring eyes and small fingers. I get mad at the dad on the scooter with two children, one of them the future Euler and the other a future Picasso, squished behind him, for crossing a red light.
Of all these people, and of all the other poor children in stalls and roads they should not be in, if I look hard enough, I am sure to find a Shakespeare, or an Einstein, or a Picasso, hidden somewhere in at least one of these children. But to the casual observer, who can’t see past their poverty, they are just another group of soccer schoolchildren who should be studying, another obedient girl who will grow up just to sell bread at street side stalls just like her mothers, and another red light runner who will be caught one day. 
There are many more Nobel prize winners and Pulitzer prize winners in us, and the competition is to see who can last the longest in the face of poverty one way and domestic issues. In high school, it is peer pressure and drugs. And only after these inner Shakespeares and Einsteins have survived past high school, can they shine in the probing light of academia. 
In the safe and stable world of the West, however, the inner talent is nurtured and harnessed to the fullest potential. Endless scholarships and gifted programs, as well as a plethora of high calibre high schools and colleges ensure no talent is lost to problems that America is far ahead of. 
The inner Euler and Newton may have been cultivated in America, but what about all the other countries to the East? Can we ignore these Einsteins of Vietnam and the Hemingways of Bangladesh, and save the Nobel Prizes to ourselves in a fit of ignorance and arrogance? If there was something I would like to change, it would be exactly this: the fact that so many Einsteins and Shakespeares and Eulers are weaseled out of academia and ousted into street side stalls or janitor positions because they aren’t born in the West. 
America has no shortage of gifted programs or magnet high schools, effectively turning talent into university professors or even Nobel Prizes. To go about achieving the same state in poorer, albeit equal in talent, countries, we would need either to wait for the natural progression of countries to reach the point where they have enough excess resources to pour into places like education. It would require the smoothing out of the creases of political corruption and mending of wars, and the satisfaction of all human needs before we can get to education. 
The question, however, should not be how long do we have to wait until academia gets equal representation from all countries, but it is rather what can we do to, provide an avenue for talent to circumvent war and instability and contribute to society in ways other than selling tea by the street. Implementing the same programs in Vietnam and other poor countries provides the solution, and circumvents the need for any political interference, as education is primarily disassociated from politics. 
Instead of pouring our money into government expeditions and seeing that money do little for the salaries of the working people, we should invest in real programs. While putting in the effort to develop and build is much harder than writing a check for some foreign government in the name of philanthropy, imagine how many doctors and scientists we are losing by sorting them with the rest of the poor. This work is similar to mining for diamond within miles of rock and soil—companies are willing to go into the jungles of the Congo and dig out the rarest of diamonds, because they are scared of others taking them. So why aren’t we scared—that generations of Nobel Prize winners and professors in the villages in Vietnam might be taken away by poverty or stigma?