An Einstein runs by me chasing after a ragged soccer ball, and swings his leg as hard as he could to send the ball flying back to his friends. An old mother and her 14-year old Shakespeare runs a street corner banh mi stall. A dad on the scooter with two children, one of them the future Euler and the other a future Picasso, squished behind him, crosses a red light, earning the honks of several truck drivers.
Of all these people, and of all the other poor children in stalls and roads they should not be in, if I look hard enough, I am sure to find a Shakespeare, or an Einstein, or a Picasso, hidden somewhere in at least one of these children. But to the casual observer, who can’t see past their poverty, they are just another group of soccer schoolchildren who should be studying, another obedient girl who will grow up just to sell bread at street side stalls just like her mothers, and another red light runner who will be caught one day. 
There are many more Nobel prize winners and Pulitzer prize winners in us, and the competition is to see who can last the longest from poverty, hunger, and perhaps domestic issues. Then, high school weeds out those scientists and doctors whose families expect them to work. And only after these inner Shakespeares and Einsteins have survived past high school, can their talent shine in academia. 
The inner Euler and Newton may have been cultivated in America, but what about all the other countries to the East? Can we ignore these Einsteins of Vietnam and the Hemingways of Bangladesh, and save the Nobel Prizes to ourselves in a fit of ignorance and arrogance? If there was something I would like to change, it would be exactly this: the fact that so many Einsteins and Shakespeares and Eulers are weaseled out of academia and ousted into street side stalls or janitor positions because they aren’t born in the West. 
America has no shortage of gifted programs or magnet high schools, which turn talent into university professors or even Nobel Prizes. To go about achieving the same state in poorer, albeit no less in talent, countries, we would need to wait for the point where they have smoothed out of the creases of political corruption and satiated all basic human needs. 
The question, however, should not be how long do we have to wait until academia gets equal representation from all countries, but it is rather what can we do to, provide an avenue for talent to circumvent war and instability and contribute to society in ways other than selling tea by the street. Implementing the same programs in Vietnam and other poor countries provides the solution, and circumvents the need for any political interference, as education is primarily disassociated from politics. 
Instead of pouring our money into government expeditions and seeing that money do little for the salaries of the working people, we should invest in real programs. While putting in the effort to develop and build is much harder than writing a check for some foreign government in the name of philanthropy, imagine how many doctors and scientists we are losing by sorting them with the rest of the poor. 
If we are willing to go into the deepest of jungles and mine out the hardest of rocks in the middle of nowhere just for that coveted diamond hidden in more miles of rock, then why aren’t we willing to do the same for the generations of professors and Nobel Prize Winners, hidden in the deepest of jungles and in the poorest of villages?