Shakespeare on the Street
An Einstein runs by me chasing after a ragged soccer ball, and swings his leg as hard as he could to send the ball flying back to his friends. An old mother and her 14-year old Shakespeare runs a street corner banh mi stall. A dad on the scooter with two children, one of them the future Euler and the other a future Picasso, squished behind him, crosses a red light, earning the honks of several truck drivers.
Of all these people, and of all the other poor children in stalls and roads they should not be in, if I look hard enough, I am sure to find a Shakespeare, or an Einstein, or a Picasso, hidden somewhere in at least one of these children. But to the casual observer, who can’t see past their poverty, they are just another group of soccer schoolchildren who should be studying, another obedient girl who will grow up just to sell bread at street side stalls just like her mothers, and another red light runner who will be caught one day. 
There are many more Nobel prize winners and Pulitzer prize winners in us, and the competition is to see who can last the longest from poverty, hunger, and perhaps domestic issues. Then, high school weeds out those scientists and doctors whose families expect them to work. And only after these inner Shakespeares and Einsteins have survived past high school, can their talent shine in academia. 
The inner Euler and Newton may have been cultivated in America, but what about all the other countries to the East? Can we ignore these Einsteins of Vietnam and the Hemingways of Bangladesh, and save the Nobel Prizes to ourselves in a fit of ignorance and arrogance? If there was something I could change, it would be the fact that so many Einsteins and Shakespeares and Eulers are weaseled out of academia and ousted into street side stalls or janitor positions.
America has no shortage of gifted programs or magnet high schools, which turn talent into university professors or even Nobel Prizes. To go about achieving the same state in poorer countries, albeit no less full of talent, we would need to wait for the point where they have smoothed out of the creases of political corruption and satiated all basic human needs. 
Our question, however, should not be how long do we have to wait until academia gets equal representation from all countries, but rather what can we do to provide an avenue for talent to circumvent war and instability and contribute to society in ways other than selling tea on the street. 
        A solution can be education programs funded externally, clear of any political ties. Makeshift schools covering remote villages could provide the tiny spark for talent to turn to success. The longer and later we wait, the harder it will be to spark inner talent ablaze. 
Adopting a purely business-like mindset helps to fathom how much we are missing out on. If we are willing to go into the deepest of jungles and mine out the hardest of rocks in the middle of nowhere just for that coveted diamond, then why aren’t we willing to do the same for the generations of professors and Nobel Prize Winners, hidden in the deepest of jungles and in the poorest of villages? These future talents might not bring as much instant monetary value as diamonds, but just because no one has attempted to dig them out doesn’t mean we shouldn’t try. 
Writing a large check for the government in the name of “philanthropy” and a televised handshake will do little for the Picasso sitting behind his dad’s bike and the Shakespeare helping her mom with the street side stall. Universal education changes the prerequisite to a Nobel Prize from wealth to purely hard work and talent. Until there is truly universal education, the only writing Shakespeare will do is orders of customers, the only math Einstein will envision is how much debt his family has left, and the only contributions to society will come from less than half of the world.