More scholarships and education opportunities to poorer countries
Equal access to education everywhere
No matter how the media bashes our education system, it is always better than the ones in the other 99% of the world. 
America is the greatest nation on Earth—debating that notion is only an exercise for the big American ego. 
Introduction: the einstein passes by, the shakespeare buys lunch, and the picasso mops the floor. Or, perhaps, a more realistic scenario would be the pizza man who dropped out of college to pay for his parents debt, the aspiring writer whose only writing are scribbles in a journal because of everything else she has to do (work?), and the future car mechanic whose only experience with art was filling in colouring books in kindergarten.


No matter how trash our own media portrays our own society, it does one thing correctly, and that is using youth potential to the fullest extent. There are a multitude of scholarships and programs designed to harness talent and transform them into winning Nobel prizes or professors. 




But how about the Einsteins of Bangladesh and the Shakespeares of Vietnam? Do we just ignore them as if they had never existed, as if we are content with acknowledging that USA is the best country and doing nothing else. Can they claim themselves such a high honour if they are willing to let these Einsteins and Shakespeares of the world pass by like night and day? 


While fixing this problem of educational opportunities and access in the real world is much more difficult, and involves solving a plethora of other problems first. In this fictional world, however, from a peaceful home with endless opportunities to dream, I can only imagine how better the world would be. 


For this to be a reality, a scientific world where everyone can contribute, we need strong nations to stop indulging in their greatness and help struggling nations out. Because for every child, there is a miniscule chance that they will become the next Einstein or Shakespeare, or the next nobel prize winner. Currently, however, most of these Nobel prize winners are white and from the West. To believe that the other three quarters of the world is simply undeserving of a Nobel prize or lacks talent is the height of the Western ego.