Is memory central to our progress, or does it merely hold us back?


In my opinion, memories are the backbone of our minds and our society. Without memories, our complex and versatile minds will be idle, incompetent at handling the complex tasks that requires a lot of memory. Our ability to recall different events and influence our decisions based on that is extremely important, and we cannot afford to lose that ability without extremely limiting our brainpower also.
        Our memories enable us to function as we are today: complex, intelligent, and adaptable creatures. However, without them, we would be limited, and we cannot develop further as humans, such as technology. Memories also prevent us from doing the things that we have failed, and that is very helpful to the further development of humans.Without memories, we and the scientific/discovery community will be in vain, as they replicate the mistakes made by men thousands of years earlier. Our memories enable us to not make those mistakes, so we will make new ones, which will be more helpful. One such example was when my mom tried to cook seaweed soup. Luckily, I did not eat it until the very last moment, so I could hear what my Dad and my brother thought about it. I thought it looked really great, but I better be safe than sorry. They too thought that, and took large amounts of it into their bowls, but the result was not great. They did not like it at all, but since it was in their bowl, they had to eat it all. Luckily, I did not make the same mistake as them, and did not have to endure the torture of eating disgusting foods. 
        However, the memories also limit us to the contours and boundaries of our bravery. We refrain from taking risks when we know others have failed, which often prevents us from making discoveries, and therefore, we lose opportunities. Nevertheless, the memories are not powerful enough to generate a sound decision, because often, curiosity outweighs the bad (or good) memories that they may have about something. For example, when I was young, I feared riding a bicycle, with ugly memories of my brother falling and bleeding all over his knees. For a long time, I did not want to learn how to ride a bicycle, despite the growing urge from my dad for me to do so. However, my growing curiosity and the pressure from my Dad outweighed my fears, and I finally learned how to ride a bicycle, but the memories of the blood still continue to haunt my brain.
        As you can see, memories are a big and a very influential part in the human society today. Without it, our lives are idle and useless, while our minds are incompetent of achieving anything great. Memories unite all of the great things of the human mind, and the great humans of society, together into something even better, something that is capable of great achievements.