There are many exhibitions that humans have made to encourage learning. There are different types of exhibitions, most of which are related to science in some way. I will take the zoo, that is related to science, as an example because it shows scientific things. However, establishing a zoo requires a great amount of money and planning. In addition, you have to figure out how to get the animals and cage them so that they cannot escape and your visitors see them easily. There has been stories of escaping animals in stories, but with our technology today animals can still escape out of their cages. In my opinion, zoos are very useful in a city that is famous for tourism, but it would be kind of useless if it is in a city that does not have many tourists. 


I think that sooner or later, the animal that lives in the zoo will be very different from the ones that live in their habitat. One example is the whale, after years and years of contact to humans, they might find other whales weird and their behaviour will be different. In addition to the disadvantages of an animal that lives in a zoo, they might have a difficult time finding their own food without help of humans. As a result of the absence of equipments and environments that certain animals need, some zoos that cannot take certain animals. For example, if I owned a zoo in Vietnam, then I would really want to bring a polar bear into Vietnam and put it into my zoo, which unfortunately is not possible. However, some of the animals that do not live naturally in a country might be in that country’s zoos because they have the equipment, such as coolers, to stimulate the environment that the animal lives in. While I and my family were going to Los Angeles for a vacation, my family were going to this place, and there were polar bears there! At that time, I could not believe that a polar bear could survive such a hot environment in LA. 


After all that talking, I have came to a final conclusion which is zoos are not necessary. Despite the many advantages, I do not think that being in a zoo is a fun experience for animals who know nothing about zoos.