There are many exhibitions that humans have made to encourage learning. There are different types of exhibitions, most of which are related to science in some way. I will take the zoo, that is related to science, as an example because it shows scientific things. However, establishing a zoo requires a great amount of money and planning. In addition, you have to figure out how to cage the animals so that people are safe and they can see the animals easily. There has been stories of escaping animals while people get scared or freaked out, but with our technology today animals can still escape out of their cages. In my opinion, zoos are very useful in a city that is famous for tourism, but it would be kind of useless if it is in a city that does not have many tourists. 


I think that sooner or later, the animal that lives in the zoo will be very different from the ones that live in their habitat. One example of this is the whale, after years and years of contact to humans, they might find other whales as weird and their behaviour will also be different. In addition to the disadvantages of an animal that lives in a zoo, they might have a difficult time finding their own food without help of humans. As a result of the absence of equipments and environments that certain animals need, some zoos cannot take certain animals. For example, if I owned a zoo in Vietnam, then I would really want to bring a polar bear into my zoo, which does not have the sufficient environment and equipments for the polar bear. However, some of the animals that do not live naturally in a country might be in that country’s zoos because the zoos have the equipment, such as coolers, to stimulate the environment that the animal lives in. My family went to this place, and there were polar bears there in LA last spring break! At that time, I could not believe that a polar bear could survive in a hot environment like LA. Of all the disadvantages listed above, I do not think zoos are helping animals at all. However, there are some advantages of zoos. 


One of the main advantages that I think a zoo has is it entertain humans. With zoos, cities that are famous for tourism will become more famous. Going to the zoo have been a very fun experience for me since I was a kid. Another major advantage is the amount of money that zoos can make. Once your zoo has some weird animals, your zoo will be very likely to prosper. In addition, with money, you can expand your zoo to make it bigger. Once your zoo is bigger, then more people will be prone to come. There is one more advantage, you can make your admission prices higher. In my opinion, working in a zoo gives you opportunity to observe the animals for free. Zoos provide care for injured animals. Injured animals are less likely to live their full life because other animals can eat them easily.


After all that talking, I have come to a final conclusion that zoos are not necessary. Despite the many advantages, I do not think that being in a zoo is a fun experience for animals that know nothing about zoos.