Tone Essay: Emily Dickinson
        The poem “The last Night that She lived” by Emily Dickinson, the tone and mood of this poem follows the speaker’s changing thoughts as she gets over her loved one’s death, referred to as “the woman.” Short and simple descriptive clauses are used to describe this complex progression of thoughts, but they also add to the eerie quietness that pervades the entire poem. The speaker’s attitude about the woman’s death goes from pure shock, to mounting grief, to detachment to the woman.
        
        The beginning of the poem, from stanzas 1-2, reflect the speaker’s initial reactions of her loved one’s death. The speaker, immediately after the woman’s death, only feels that it had ”made Nature different.” Perhaps, the speaker could only feel that something was off after the death, but couldn’t pinpoint exactly what was off. The second stanza further reinforces this assertion, as the speaker notices her “noticing the smallest things…overlooked before.” The eerie quiet tone of the first two stanzas also stem from the simple, short lines of the poem. However, the last line of the second stanza stands out, perhaps, supporting the notion that after the death, certain things, not noticed before, had been “italicized.” The speaker’s attitude about the woman’s death in this section is of pure shock, almost putting the speaker into a trance that comes before the inevitable grief. 


        From stanzas 3-4, the speaker begins to feel the mounting grief, as her daily life is interrupted by the woman’s death. The initial shock has worn off, and reality starts to set in as the speaker experiences day after day without the woman. The third stanza paints a picture of the speaker aimlessly wandering through the rooms as she mourns the woman’s death. In fact, the speaker’s grief becomes so great, that “a jealousy for her [the woman] arose,” because the woman didn’t have to endure the mounting grief experienced by the speaker. In this period, grief and the enormity of the death begins to set into the speaker. The overall “quietness” portrayed in the poem of the speaker’s life allows her grief for the woman’s death to flourish.


        The speaker’s final reactions about death are more impersonal and describe the actual process of the woman dying. Line 19 is the last line that talks about the speaker, portrayed as too overcome with grief and shock to even speak. The rest of the poem is pure description of the woman passing away, with no more mention of the initial speaker’s thoughts. Perhaps, this is done to suggest that the speaker has gone into a trance, as if the pure shock of the woman passing away negates all emotions. While the description talks nothing of the speaker, its tone reflects the speaker’s thoughts. Short, simple lines devoid of any emotion, “She mentioned, and forgot…consented, and was dead…And drew the head erect,” suggest the blankness of the speaker’s mind. 


        The speaker’s attitude in the poem changes as the speaker grasps the reality of the woman’s death. Shock comes first as a filler before the inevitable heavy grief sets in, then the speaker enters into a trance as she watches the body get prepared for funeral. A somber and quiet mood pervades the entire course of the poem, amplified by the simple, nondescript clauses that Dickinson uses. Dickinson’s relatively secluded life provides reason for her many poems about death, this one included.