The Winter Olympics are a very big event in which the players play certain kinds of winter sports to win medals. One memorable event that was in Canada in the year two thousand and ten was Canada got top place! One reason why is the cutting-edge technology that Innovations for gold provided for the athlete. Therefore, the Canadian athletes in the year two thousand and ten were given an advantage. It may seem not much, but reducing one thousandth of a second off a ski racer can lead him or her to a winning position. The research done by Innovations for Gold were executing the most efficient sleep schedule, better gear, and changing the sleeping patterns of an athlete.


        I think that the Winter Olympics in the year two thousand and ten were the best olympic for Canada. In that year, Canadian athletes won twenty six medals altogether along with fourteen gold medals. The two thousand and ten winter olympics were hosted in Vancouver, the city that I am living in right now. You could notice that by looking at the signs in community centers in Vancouver such as Hillcrest. I think that the Canadian athletes won the games because of the most advanced technology that Innovations for Gold provided for them. 


As I had said before I wrote this, Innovations for Gold gave the athletes their most advanced technology in order for them to win. Reducing just one thousandth of a second could make a dramatic impact on the results. However, adding an addition one thousandth of a second to the total time it took for anyone to finish the course may change the results completely. Therefore, that is why even the slightest change in a bobsled could lead towards a bronze medal instead of a gold medal or a silver medal. How do the group Innovations for Gold did that? Well, they did a lot of research, and they had a very experience group of engineers and craftsmen to craft the equipment.


I hope that the Canadian team will perform as well in this winter olympics hosted in Sochi, Russia. I wish that the Winter Olympics games were hosted in Vancouver because I can watch it whenever I want without having to fly all the way to Russia. I would rather fund the organization Innovations for Gold than not fund it. If the Government of Canada funded the organization more, there would be more chance of Canada winning.