21st century education


“What do you think helped you most with your learning these first 2 months?” I asked a gifted grade 6 student on the last day of my mini-internship at a self-proclaimed “innovative 21st century middle school.”
“I think it’s that the teachers do 21st century learning with us and let us use technology to learn.”
“Oh cool! Can you explain what 21st century learning is? Or give me any examples?”
“I don’t know. It’s just 21st century learning. The teachers just told us that.” 


My 2 and some months at that school opened my mind. Not to how “21st century learning” helped students learn so much better. No--it opened my mind to how awfully unproductive teachers can be when they wrestle with anger management issues, rowdy teenagers, playground brawls, engaging the gifted kids, and their own patience. The conversation I had with the gifted 6th grader revealed how such a noble idea was destined to fail. 
        The “let us use technology to learn” part? The only learning the students did were how to not use the iPad and the proper way to put the iPads back into the cart. Perfect example of “technology-integrated interactive learning,” right? 


I recently got the chance to see a new middle school in Vancouver which seeks to deviate itself from the traditional closed walls of classrooms and the monotone of hallways. The school opts, instead, for open hallways and clear glass classrooms and an emphasis on student interactions rather than memorization, claiming that they enhance learning. 


As part of an internship program, I could essentially “shadow” one of the teachers for the whole of September/November. The first few days were interesting enough: I could see how encouraging  student interactions could allow them to benefit. The entirety of the first week was the teachers praising the new education system and how much fun they planned for the students, which was understandable considering how new and enthusiastic the teachers were supposed to be. 


The next week was a plethora of assemblies and the same echo chamber of how lucky the students were to be in this “beautiful school.” At the beginning of every assembly, the principal would acknowledge, with great genuinity, that this school was situated on “traditionally unsettled Musqueam land.” She would then invite an aboriginal student to repeat the same fact, except coupled with even more stutters and uhms and redundant rephrasings of the same idea. I got the message that they were dedicated to the aboriginal awareness cause, but whether the teachers taught anything about First Nations still remains a question, even after 2 months of shadowing them.


I got the impression that this was the perfect environment complemented by the perfect educational system--it would allow gifted kids to succeed and bring fun back to learning for all the other students. The idea was noble, but the execution still leaves lots to be desired. 


Within a month, the teachers fell from their high ground of “21st century education” and “collaborative development and differentiated instruction” to a technique that has been effective for decades: students listen and teachers teach. The gifted and the normal and the poor kids were grouped together into 1 classroom, like it had always been for the last 10 years. There was little time for “cooperative socioemotional project based learning.” Instead, there were fill in the blanks and pages upon pages of repetitive math problems. Hardly “personalized individualized learner-driven self-paced learning” if you ask me. 


As these tests got marked and came back to the students, the teachers had to give the students something so they could know how well they did, right? They could have just used percentages and letter grades, just like every other school. But that doesn’t fit the “