21st century education


“What do you think helped you most with your learning these first 2 months?” I asked a gifted grade 6 student on the last day of my mini-internship at a self-proclaimed “innovative 21st century middle school.”
“I think it’s that the teachers do 21st century learning with us and let us use technology to learn.”
“Oh cool! Can you explain what 21st century learning is? Or give me any examples?”
“I don’t know. It’s just 21st century learning. The teachers just told us that.” 


My 2 and some months at that school opened my mind. Not to how “21st century learning” helped students learn so much better. No--it opened my mind to how awfully unproductive teachers can be when they wrestle with anger management issues, rowdy teenagers, playground brawls, engaging the gifted kids, and their own patience. The conversation I had with the gifted 6th grader revealed how such a noble idea was destined to fail. 


The “let us use technology to learn” part? The only learning the students did were how to not use the iPad and the proper way to put the iPads back into the cart. Perfect example of “technology-integrated inquiry-based interactive learning,” right? 


As part of an internship program, I could essentially “shadow” one of the teachers for the whole of September/November. I was genuinely intrigued in the school’s noble goal, and could see how encouraging student interactions and the multitude of other complicated ideals could help learning.


The next week was a plethora of assemblies and an echo chamber of how lucky the students were in this beautiful school. At the beginning of every assembly, the principal would acknowledge, feigning great genuinity, that this school was “situated on traditionally unsettled Musqueam land.” An aboriginal student then came to the podium and said essentially the same thing, except littered with uhms and chuckles. I quickly got the message that they were dedicated to the aboriginal awareness cause, but whether the teachers taught anything about First Nations? That still remains a question, even after 2 months.


Within a month, the teachers fell from their high ground of “21st century education” and “collaborative development and differentiated instruction” to a technique that has been effective for decades: students listen and teachers teach. The gifted and the normal and the poor kids were grouped together into 1 classroom, like it had always been for the last 10 years. “Weekly student-inspired inquiry and seminars” slowly crumbled to ruins as that time was used for making up for late classes. There was little time for “cooperative socioemotional project based learning.” Instead, there were fill in the blanks and pages upon pages of repetitive math problems. Hardly “personalized individualized learner-driven self-paced learning” if you ask me. 


As these tests got marked and came back to the students, the teachers had to give the students something so they could know how well they did, right? They could have just used percentages and letter grades, just like every other school. But that doesn’t fit the school’s mantra of being different, so they used A (acquiring) D (developing) R (refining) M (mastering) E (extending) scale. Just to be different. 


While their idea is certainly noble, it requires the kind of resources that a typical mid-city public school doesn’t have. It requires that teachers stick to their ideals instead of backing off into the simpler traditional methods of learning. Until those 2 requirements are satisfied, however, “individualized flexible dual blended technology integrated experience-based learning” will never work.