My uncle’s house, located in the poor suburbs of Saigon, nests some of my fondest memories of my childhood at Vietnam, before my family had immigrated to Canada when I was 7 years old. Even though my own home was situated in a wealthy neighbourhood, adorned with luxury apartments and lakeside restaurants, my uncle’s house still is the reason that keeps . 


The walls with their chipping paint, decorated occasionally with a child’s pencil doodles underneath a few layers of vigorous pencil marks, as if trying to cover up the doodles. The tiled floor was riddled with cracks and stains. Outside on the cracked stone porch, a line of plants shielded us from the other neighbours, but I didn’t know whether they were ours or the neighbour’s. A layer of green had settled on the soil, and the plants looked close to dying. 


Still, it was one of those places that I didn’t have to restrain myself. At my own house in the richer neighbourhood, the streets had felt too clean, the plants too fresh, and the air too clear. Once I stepped out of that neighbourhood, the dirt and noise from a dozen trailer trucks rumbling down the highway engulfed me. 


There was only 1 light and 1 ceiling fan in the whole house, making the hallways dark and smell stagnant. An old tattered shirt served as a mat, outside the bathroom, which had been stepped on so many times that the original design of the shirt had faded for black streaks. A lack of air conditioning resulted in a layer of dried sweat after a long night, and the sheets had always reeked of an odd smell. 


The kitchen, at the end of a dark hallway, was always hotter than the rest of the house, even with the fan at maximum. The kitchen had always been the centre of anything: from heated fights between the in-laws, or late night baking workshops with the women of the family. The image of 5 women, one of them my mom, sitting around a small table late night, gossiping and making treats for New Year’s had always resonated in my mind. Nothing had induced such a warm feeling of being inside a family. 


Those were not the most memorable moments in that house, however. Every year, I would beg my parents to take me back to Vietnam, all the way from middle school to high school, not because I wanted to experience the delicious food or the warm beaches. Rather, I wanted a taste of my own childhood again, when we had lost touch following my immigration to Canada. From the hushed silence following a crazy pillow fight after we had realized we had been caught, or riding bikes through cow pasture, it seems my childhood is rooted in my uncle’s house.