Discuss the nature of identity as well as your own observations and experience. 
How does external factors such as mainstream/majority culture stereotypes and peer pressure influence character's’ identity and the short film identity. What does each character learn about his/her self through a reflection of their own identities.
The Jabber, Fish Cheeks, On My Knees Bleeding


In each of these 3 stories, “The Jabber,” “Fish Cheeks,” and “On My Knees Bleeding,” the characters are in conflict with society’s norms about how they should behave. In all of these stories, the characters dislike the norms that their culture imposes upon them, and tries to challenge these norms. In “The Jabber,” the character succeeds in challenging these norms and in turn, her peers have acknowledged her differently than a stereotype. In the 2 other stories, their attempts to distance themselves from their stereotype have failed. The common themes remain similar, however, stating the value of identity on a person’s life and on how others treat them. 


The main character in “The Jabber,” Fatima, is subject to stereotypes about her in the new school. Even Jorah, her boyfriend, assumes that just because Fatima wears a hijab, that she conforms to every strict Islamic guideline. Jorah thinks she can’t behave normally and is restricted in what she can and cannot say. Fatima’s personality, revealed as the play progresses, is nothing like the stereotypes of Muslim women held by Jorah and even the viewers. She is daring, brave, and liberal. I had thought she would be shy, submissive, and quiet when the play began. The contrast and seeing a new girl stand up to a bigger boy with anger issues, without regarding her religion, was interesting. 


The 2 short stories, “Fish Cheeks,” and “On My Knees Bleeding,” features the other side of the story, where the issues of identity and stereotypes don’t get resolved as swiftly as in “The Jabber.” Amy Tan’s Chinese culture doesn’t play well with the minister’s son and her crush, so she becomes ashamed of her own culture. We can see that clearly from the narrator's reaction as her dad gouges the eye out of the "fish that barely wanted to be there [vaque quote]" and offers it to her, saying "It's your favorite." Of course, their white friends are disgusted by this "weird" Chinese culture, and even Robert, her childhood crush, seems to be partially shocked from their Chinese relative's unruly behavior. With all of this, Amy turns to despise the traditions and values of her own culture, even though it is implied that when their relatives are not there complaining, Amy likes the food very much. 
The main message in "Fish Cheeks," however, is different from the main message of "The Jabber," even though both deal with identity and stereotypes. In "The Jabber," Fatima is subject to the wrong stereotypes and wants to show others, particularly her mini-boyfriend, that she is not the shy, conservative, and timid Muslim girl that they think she is. In this short story, however, the narrator subjects herself to cultural norms and doesn't appreciate the true value of her own culture. While inside, she remains true to her Chinese culture and its values, on the outside, she wants to fit in and be liked by everybody. 


The last short story, "On My Knees Bleeding," is of similar type to "Fish Cheeks." The protagonist is unhappy with his current identity and experiences a philosophical crisis just as he is about to die. He had 2 identities: one of the Royals, and one of Andy. Just as he is about to die, however, his extra personality of the "Royals" remains of no use to him. After all, what connection did he have with "The Royals," and what need did he have to satisfy with them? Any pride or worldly desires is irrelevant when one is dying, and so Andy uses that last bit of energy just to make sure he doesn't die as another "Royal," but as Andy. Of course, the sad side to this story is that the cop doesn't think so, and in turn, his attempts had failed. 


Identity is such a large topic, as it is something that pertains to all of us at every point in our lives. Every decision we have made and every step we have taken were motivated by our identities and personalities. Each of these 3 pieces take a different angle on this large issue, but they are all part of a movement about emphasizing how sacred one's identity is. These stories, especially "The Jabbers," feature the lives of those with fringe identities, such as a brave and daring Muslim girl, and states that it is fine to be different.