Discuss the nature of identity as well as your own observations and experience. 
How does external factors such as mainstream/majority culture stereotypes and peer pressure influence character's’ identity and the short film identity. What does each character learn about his/her self through a reflection of their own identities.
The Jabber, Fish Cheeks, On My Knees Bleeding


In each of these 3 stories, “The Jabber,” “Fish Cheeks,” and “On My Knees Bleeding,” the characters are in conflict with society’s norms about how they should behave. In all of these stories, the characters dislike the norms that their culture imposes upon them, and tries to challenge these norms. In “The Jabber,” the character succeeds in challenging these norms and in turn, her peers have acknowledged her differently than a stereotype. In the 2 other stories, their attempts to distance themselves from their stereotype have failed. The common themes remain similar, however, stating the value of identity on a person’s life and on how others treat them. 


Fatima in “The Jabber” is subject to stereotypes from everyone in her new school, even by her mini-boyfriend Jorah. Their first impressions of her remain something similar to a timid, shy, and passive Muslim girl. Fatima’s real identity, revealed as the play progresses, defies all these stereotypes, and show her as a daring, brave, and liberal person.


The other 2 short stories, “Fish Cheeks,” and “On My Knees Bleeding,” features the other side of the same theme. Amy Tan’s Chinese culture doesn’t play well with the minister’s family and their own identity. When Amy’s dad “poked his chopsticks just below the fish eye and plucked out the soft meat,” or when the “relatives licked the ends...dozen or so plates of food,” the minister’s family visibly express their disgust. Amy would’ve immediately abandoned her Chinese customs in favor for the norms, but her mother asks Amy to continue to be Chinese. Unlike “The Jabber,” Amy is asked instead to maintain her traditional customs, rather than abandon them. 
In “On My Knees Bleeding,” the protagonist is unhappy with his current identity and experiences a philosophical crisis just as he is about to die. He had 2 identities: one of the Royals, and one of Andy. Just as he is about to die, however, his extra personality of the "Royals" remains of no use to him. After all, what connection did he have with "The Royals," and what need did he have to satisfy with them? Any pride or worldly desires is irrelevant when one is dying, and so Andy uses that last bit of energy just to make sure he doesn't die as another "Royal," but as Andy. Of course, the sad side to this story is that the cop doesn't think so, and in turn, his attempts had failed. 


Identity is such a large topic, as it is something that pertains to all of us at every point in our lives. Every decision we have made and every step we have taken were motivated by our identities and personalities. Each of these 3 pieces take a different angle on this large issue, but they are all part of a movement about emphasizing how sacred one's identity is. These stories, especially "The Jabbers," feature the lives of those with fringe identities, such as a brave and daring Muslim girl, and states that it is fine to be different. 


Even when everyone at the school thinks you are a terrorist, or when all of your values work against you, or when you are stabbed and are going to die, identity is something that you have the most power of. They permeate the idea that if you are strong enough, then your identity will be unfettered by peer pressure or stereotypes, and if a dying, stabbed person in the middle of the streets can “individualize” their identity, then so can you.