In each of these 3 stories, “The Jabber,” “Fish Cheeks,” and “On My Knees Bleeding,” the characters are in conflict with society’s norms about how they should behave. In “The Jabber,” the character succeeds in challenging these norms and her peers have acknowledged that she is not a “typical Muslim girl.” In the 2 other stories, the characters try to distance themselves from their identity. The themes stay common throughout all of these stories, each presenting a different take on identity.
Fatima in “The Jabber” is subject to stereotypes from everyone in her new school, even by her boyfriend Jorah. Their first impressions of Fatima are similar to a timid, shy, and passive Muslim girl. Fatima’s real identity, revealed as the play progresses, defies all these stereotypes, but not without Fatima’s struggles and frustrations.
The other short story, “Fish Cheeks,” feature the other side of the same theme. The message is instead, to keep your traditional identity . When Amy’s dad “poked his chopsticks just below the fish eye and plucked out the soft meat,” or when the “relatives licked the ends...dozen or so plates of food,” the minister’s family visibly express their disgust. Amy would’ve immediately abandoned her Chinese customs in favor for the norms, but her mother asks Amy to continue to be Chinese. Unlike “The Jabber,” Amy is asked instead to maintain her traditional customs, rather than abandon them. 
In “On My Knees Bleeding,” the protagonist had 2 identities: the Royals, and Andy. The protagonist had just suffered a stabbing wound because he was a “Royal,” but wants to die as an "Andy." He didn't want his death to be "just another gang member," or his death as another news story condemning gang violence. Andy doesn't want any gangs from staining his identity, so he spends his last bit of energy to remove his Royals jacket.  
These 3 stories each come from a different angle regarding this universal identity theme, but they all reinforce the importance of identity. And even when everyone at the school thinks you are a terrorist, or when all of your values work against you, or when you are stabbed and are going to die, identity is something that you have the most power of. They permeate the idea that if you are strong enough, then your identity will be unfettered by peer pressure or stereotypes, and if a dying, stabbed person in the middle of the streets can “individualize” their identity, then so can you.