Does knowledge make one happier or sadder?


There has always been this common proverb that one who has lots of knowledge will be more stressed out and overall sadder than others who have less knowledge than him. This quote can be commonly referred to as some of the famous CEOs of large companies-with lots of knowledge, and not much happiness because they have to manage their large companies. However, more knowledge will benefit us more, and as we begin to appreciate the benefits that knowledge brings to us, including being prouder of ourselves and resolving the problems that we have before they get out of hand, knowledge will soon become a common good quality people will all thrive for. 
There are many types of knowledge, good or bad. Good knowledge being beneficial to us, it also means that the knowledge we have do not need to be hidden, and we are not shameful of possessing that knowledge or information. In contrast, bad knowledge is the information that we are shameful of possessing, and would not like other people to know that, such as that we have committed a crime, or we are possessing illegal information. We can use good knowledge to our benefit, such as letting our stress go away, or being smarter and learning more effectively. It also makes people less stupid. For example, my cousin both possessed bad knowledge and good knowledge. Although he hated his bad knowledged and wanted to like kick them out of his brain. However, he could not, so that’s why bad knowledge is not beneficial but good knowledge is beneficial. 
However, knowledge can change very suddenly. What can be so beneficial and useful to us can decrease us to nothing in very little time. For example, the knowledge that our loved ones are cheating will surely have a very negative impact on us, instead of having positive impact when our loved ones are loyal to us. In this case, it will seem as if we cannot get any benefit out of this event, but any person who is determined can and will get a lot of benefit out of this event. One way is to reevaluate ourselves and figure out why our loved one or that person cheated on us. It also helps to resolve the problem before it gets too big and out of hand.
As you can see, common proverbs are not always correct, as they are regularly competed by recent and scientific research studies, such as this one: more knowledge will result in less happiness. Many research studies have proved that knowledge can be very beneficial to the human race- many people individually and the whole group. Now, instead of being considered a burden, knowledge will more be considered as a good quality, as a benefit.