More scholarships and education opportunities to poorer countries
Equal access to education everywhere
No matter how the media bashes our education system, it is always better than the ones in the other 99% of the world. 
America is the greatest nation on Earth—debating that notion is only an exercise for the big American ego. 
Introduction: the einstein passes by, the shakespeare buys lunch, and the picasso mops the floor. Or, perhaps, a more realistic scenario would be the pizza man who dropped out of college to pay for his parents debt, the aspiring writer whose only writing are scribbles in a journal because of everything else she has to do (work?), and the future car mechanic whose only experience with art was filling in colouring books in kindergarten.


No matter how trash our own media portrays our own society, it does one thing correctly, and that is using youth potential to the fullest extent. There are a multitude of scholarships and programs designed to harness talent and transform them into winning Nobel prizes or professors. 




But how about the Einsteins of Bangladesh and the Shakespeares of Vietnam? Perhaps, going to a lesser, albeit more realistic, extent, the doctors and lawyers who never even find their way to a textbook. Do we just ignore them as if they had never existed, as if we are content with acknowledging that USA is the best country and doing nothing else. Can they claim themselves such a high honour if they are willing to let these Einsteins and Shakespeares of the world pass by like night and day? 


While fixing this problem of educational opportunities and access in the real world is much more difficult, and involves solving a plethora of other problems first. In this fictional world, however, from a peaceful home with endless opportunities to dream, I can only imagine how better the world would be. 


For this to be a reality, a scientific world where everyone can contribute, we need strong nations to stop indulging in their greatness and help struggling nations out. Because for every child, there is a miniscule chance that they will become the next Einstein or Shakespeare, or the next nobel prize winner. Currently, however, most of these Nobel prize winners are white and from the West. To believe that the other three quarters of the world is simply undeserving of a Nobel prize or lacks talent is the height of the Western ego. 


How to go about doing it:


First, peace and stability. Prerequisite, because any advances made beyond these two, if they are nonexistent, will become reversed. Hard to achieve in countries plagued by wars whose causes are instilled in the culture.


These problems are primarily caused by poverty—lack of money. To solve this problem, we cannot avoid circumventing this underlying problem of needs, which can only be solved by money. The reason these Einsteins of the world go lost into farming and electricians are because the state doesn’t have enough excess money to dedicate to making the world greater, as all of the money is spent trying to survive. 


The natural progression of humanity automatically leaves education and the sciences last—rightly so as all of the other needs have greater priority (e.g. food, housing, economic security, …). They first involve sorting out political creases and deeper problems. Claiming these problems have less priority than education is absurd, as many of the problems that need to be solved before education involve life and death, and bring in far more consequences than a substandard education system. However, these all require significant amount of resources only a government could amass and use. In addition, they are heavily tied to politics, which requires lots of effort. 


Education is significant, but it is also easily manageable with low resources and is not tied heavily to politics. The benefits of this would be significant, partly because we will have much more representation of developing countries in academia, but more significantly, the progress of the country will speed up naturally due to a more educated populace. 


We can help spawn more gifted programs at an early age, and capture their talent before it disappears. Once we wait until high school or the college years, when students will really have the first chance to show their talent, it is too late, because the only ones that last so long are those with really good parents or with lots of money.  
Because for every moment we are delaying, an Einstein retires to his farm, a Shakespeare sweeps the street, a potential Nobel Prize Winner becomes a cashier, and a new advance to humanity slips away.


__________________________________________________________


Hello all!
I am a 40 year old accountant working for UBC, born in Vietnam but moved to Canada in 2010. While my relatively boring job as an accountant does not entail much writing, I decided the least I could do was spice up my reports. My level of writing is absolutely despicable compared to my colleagues, so thank god that I have a job that doesn’t require me to showcase my writing. 


Instead of shying away from any writing, I thought to clean it up a bit, and perhaps make my writing more interesting—so here I am! Aside from brushing up my writing skills for work, I also want to get more comfortable with the English language. Whenever I tell interesting stories or do presentations, the words come out all slurred or are littered with grammar mistakes. While this is a writing course, I think improvements in my writing will seep through to my other English skills.


This is my first course in Gotham Writers, and I hope after this, my colleagues will actually look forward to reading my reports!


Then write an essay analyzing the rhetorical strategies Kincaid employs to convey her attitude toward England.


The essay “On Seeing England for the First Time,” by Jamaica Kincaid, recounts a period in her childhood where everything was dominated by England. Kincaid uses deceptively simple language to hint at the enormity of the problem caused by the English colonising Antigua. The beginning of this essay provides context for Kincaid’s subsequent anger for England later in her life, as she graduates from the “childish” and naive viewpoint employed in the beginning of the essay.


Kincaid’s repetition of the words “Made in England” near the beginning simulates the “oppression” the English had placed on her country and culture. She writes, “It had written on it… the words ‘Made in England.’ Those words ‘Made in England’ were written on the box the oats came in too.” Even “the very idea of the meal itself…proper breakfast was a big breakfast,” and while Kincaid disliked such idea of eating a big meal at the beginning of the day—“it made us feel sleepy, tired.”—she still ate a big breakfast, just because it was English. Even the hat her father had worn was distinctly English—it had been worn because of the “English-like” image it had brought. 


This repetition of the words “England” in a land that is not English induces an oppressive, “cramped” tone in which English culture forces its way into Kincaid’s culture. Furthermore, Kincaid describes these new English traditions lacking in emotion and anger, as if from the perspective of a child. Written in pure description, this part provides the context for Kincaid’s later anger at England as she realizes the atrocities committed by the English people to her culture. The prose doesn’t allow room for emotions, conclusions, or even the author’s own thoughts—only the words “England” followed by another variant of “England.” Nevertheless, this repetition of “England” mimics the “crampedness” of English culture closing in on her as a child, such as forced to eat the English way or follow English traditions. 


Kincaid also uses foreshadowing and hints at her later anger for England, and “what a blessing it was that I was unable to draw a map of England correctly.” 




When I was still young, my parents would take me to fairs at the nearby temple where they would give out books and supplies to students from poor villages—it happened about once every four months, and my parents ensured that I had never missed a single one of the book donation fairs. While the monks were distributing the books and my parents were busy helping others, I grew captivated by their smiles—the way their cheeks turned upwards and outwards when their hands became laden with books. Even after the photographers put away their cameras and the monks retired to their rooms, the smiles still stayed. Teenage cynicism got to me once I grew older, but that didn’t change the fact that I had never missed a book donation fair, and seeing their happiness leach off upon each other separated my mind temporarily from my worries. I want to join Kindlers Society because I don’t want to have this experience just once every 4 months. Rather, I want to be directly involved in the smiles of these children and relive the experience of helping children every day.