Hello all!
I am a 40 year old accountant working for UBC, born in Vietnam but moved to Canada in 2010. While my relatively boring job as an accountant does not entail much writing, I decided the least I could do was spice up my reports. My level of writing is absolutely despicable compared to my colleagues, so thank god that I have a job that doesn’t require me to showcase my writing. 


Instead of shying away from any writing, I thought to clean it up a bit, and perhaps make my writing more interesting—so here I am! Aside from brushing up my writing skills for work, I also want to get more comfortable with the English language. Whenever I tell interesting stories or do presentations, the words come out all slurred or are littered with grammar mistakes. While this is a writing course, I think improvements in my writing will seep through to my other English skills.


This is my first course in Gotham Writers, and I hope after this, my colleagues will actually look forward to reading my reports!


Then write an essay analyzing the rhetorical strategies Kincaid employs to convey her attitude toward England.


The essay “On Seeing England for the First Time,” by Jamaica Kincaid, recounts a period in her childhood where everything was dominated by England. Kincaid uses deceptively simple language to hint at the enormity of the problem caused by the English colonising Antigua. The beginning of this essay provides context for Kincaid’s subsequent anger for England later in her life, as she graduates from the “childish” and naive viewpoint employed in the beginning of the essay.


Kincaid’s repetition of the words “Made in England” near the beginning simulates the “oppression” the English had placed on her country and culture. She writes, “It had written on it… the words ‘Made in England.’ Those words ‘Made in England’ were written on the box the oats came in too.” Even “the very idea of the meal itself…proper breakfast was a big breakfast,” and while Kincaid disliked such idea of eating a big meal at the beginning of the day—“it made us feel sleepy, tired.”—she still ate a big breakfast, just because it was English. Even the hat her father had worn was distinctly English—it had been worn because of the “English-like” image it had brought. 


This repetition of the words “England” in a land that is not English induces an oppressive, “cramped” tone in which English culture forces its way into Kincaid’s culture. Furthermore, Kincaid describes these new English traditions lacking in emotion and anger, as if from the perspective of a child. Written in pure description, this part provides the context for Kincaid’s later anger at England as she realizes the atrocities committed by the English people to her culture. The prose doesn’t allow room for emotions, conclusions, or even the author’s own thoughts—only the words “England” followed by another variant of “England.” Nevertheless, this repetition of “England” mimics the “crampedness” of English culture closing in on her as a child, such as forced to eat the English way or follow English traditions. 


Kincaid also uses foreshadowing and hints at her later anger for England, and “what a blessing it was that I was unable to draw a map of England correctly.”