Many jobs have to be done in the Earth. However, humans do not like to do them. I would rather choose a job that I like and do it than be forced to do a job that I do not like.  However, we cannot just skip jobs and do whatever we want, so some person started the idea of giving someone something if they do a certain job. Then, money came out and they started to give money instead of a thing, or an object. At first, it seems pretty cool, but it got worse when people ask for more money to be given to them when they do a job. However, I think that people got used to it, because every business uses the method: paying money so that they do a job. Anyways, some jobs are harder than others, so they get more money.  
I think that doctors, police, or other jobs that rescue or help people should get the most money because without them, many people would die as if there were a pandemic. If there were no doctors, any sick person have a high risk off dyeing. On average, doctors get the most, but how about police, or firefighters. They do the same job: protect people. I do not think that it seems fair because police and firefighters have to stay alert every time, but doctors just have to work during office hours. Those people have been saving our lives many times, but they get low wages. Also, some really good firefighters do not get to be famous, nor do they get high wages. I hope that wages will be fairer next year. I wish that everyone would get the same wages, even bathroom cleaners. I also think that firefighters do more work than doctors, such as running, spraying, dragging, and many others that I did not mention. I think that doctors, firefighters, police, and other jobs that do service to people will be having less work because the new technology that we have this year will do the basic jobs for them this year. Police are also like firefighters, hardworking but they receive a low wage. I think that the polices’ job is as dangerous as the firefighters’ job, because police might get killed, and firefighters might run out of oxygen or get burned.
People had traded things, objects, food, for other people to do jobs before money was invented. I think that how money was invented was while people were trading; someone smart came up with the idea of money. However, some communities did not use money; they might use cocoa beans as money, such as the Aztecs. I have seen firefighters do their work, and doctors do their work, and I must say that a firefighter’s work is harsher than a doctor’s work.