My mother’s friend, Lucy, had owned a company before she moved to Canada to live with us. She had to make a decision on whether or not to donate the money from the company the arts or the environment. Since many people liked the arts better than the environment, she donated the money to support the arts. However, I could tell that she made a huge mistake because the environment needs support whereas the arts are prospering. In my opinion, she could have made a big difference if she had donated that amount of money to the environment. The environment is changing quickly; 
therefore, companies should support the environment instead of the arts.
        Many people say “Time is money”, and that is true when we are referring to the environment. Nowadays, our climate needs more care than ever; therefore, we should donate money to environmental support groups such as Environment Canada. I remembered my chess coach saying “ Fixing problems and bad habits fast is better than postponing it.” Therefore, if we fix the environment problem first, it would be way better than fixing it like in 20 years or so. There are many steps we can take to fix that problem; and donating extra money to environmental groups is clearly a choice. I think what my chess coach said was very true because fixing it early is easier than fixing it when it has grown bigger. For instance, it is very hard and costs a lot of money to fix the environment problem; however, if we had fixed it before, it would have taken not a lot of money and not much effort. 
        Some may argue that many people prefer arts over the environment. Therefore, the company would be helping a lot of people if it donates money to the arts. However, since the majority of the world’s population are not environmentalists, they do not know how big the threat of global warming is. When I was about three years old, my brother and my dad kept talking about climate change and how it affects the Earth; however, I did not care about what climate change does to the Earth. Therefore, not many people realize the threats of climate change. Imagine environmentalists voting, they would definitely vote for environment. In addition, after the company donates money to the environment and the global warming problem has been fixed, they can always donate some money to the arts. Companies do not know that they can make a big difference. They think that the money is not enough to fix global warming, but it every company donates, that amount of money is enough to fix global warming. 
        There are many advantages of donating money to environmental support groups such as Environment Canada. One of the advantages is we can help resolve the global warming problem very easily. In addition, if we do not act soon enough, the global warming will be irreversible; which means that we cannot fix it. Nobody wants to live in such as hot climate. Although many people like the arts, climate change is a big problem. Many people do not know the threats and effects of climate change. In conclusion, companies should donate their money to support the environment.