Companies should support the environment instead of the arts


My mother’s friend, Lucy, had owned a company before she moved to Canada to live with us. She made a decision on whether or not to donate the money from the company to the arts or the environment. Since many people would prefer the arts than the environment, she donated the money to support the arts in 2010, when she sold the company. However, I could tell that she made a huge mistake because the environment needs support whereas the arts are prospering. In my opinion, she could have made a big difference if she had donated that amount of money to the environment. The environment is changing quickly; therefore, companies should support the environment instead of the arts.
Nowadays, with the fast-changing climate, we need to react quickly in order to save this planet from getting too hot. Although environmental support groups receive such huge amounts of money, we need all the help we can get. Fortunately, companies can significantly increase the chance of saving this planet from global warming by donating money. Many companies use their extra money to support the arts. However, we can use that money to support the environment instead of the arts. Environmental groups would eventually get rich and develop some kind of cheap electric car or super effective windmill. In order to prove the reliability of electric cars, I collected data on how much gasoline my father’s car use every month. Based on the data that I collected, my dad uses roughly 92 litres of gas every month. However, the amount of litres of gas decelerated significantly when my dad used a hybrid car last summer.  
        Some may argue that many people prefer arts over the environment. Therefore, the company would be helping a lot of people if it donates money to the arts. However, since the majority of the world’s population are not environmentalists, they do not know how big the threat of global warming is. When I was about three years old, my brother and my dad kept talking about climate change and how it affects the Earth; however, I did not care about what climate change does to the Earth. Therefore, not many people realize the threats of climate change. Imagine environmentalists voting, they would definitely vote for environment. In addition, after the company donates money to the environment and the global warming problem has been fixed, they can always donate some money to the arts. Companies do not know that they can make a big difference. They think that the money is not enough to fix global warming, but if every company donates, that amount of money is enough to fix global warming. 
        There are many advantages of donating money to environmental support groups such as Environment Canada. One of the advantages is we can help resolve the global warming problem very easily. In addition, if we do not act soon enough, the global warming will be irreversible; which means that we cannot fix it. Nobody wants to live in such as hot climate. Although many people like the arts, climate change is a big problem. Many people do not know the threats and effects of climate change. In conclusion, companies should donate their money to support the environment.