Minimum wage




The minimum wage could be hailed as one of the marking achievements of democracy—almost spawning a new human right in itself: the right to valuable work. Just looking at the minimum wage simply, it is obvious that the minimum wage is very beneficial in reducing the pay gap, an increasing problem in today’s society. 


The pay gap was an unintended consequence of today’s democracy, in that the richer you are, the more likely you will become rich. In addition, the opposite effect also happens, in that the poorer you are, the more likely you are to become poorer, or the less likely you are to become richer. In order to satisfy this pay gap, the government had the ingenious idea to lower or try to remediate this growing gap in pay between the super-rich and the poor, to install a minimum wage. 


While this seems like a great idea at first, elevating the starting pedestal for poor people and making it easier for them to enter into the middle class, and after that, have a higher chance of climbing up the ladder. However, looking deeper at the economics of this issue reveals a big problem that our compassionate and feel-good emotions did not pry. Simple supply and demand rules contradict this blatant manipulation of economic guidelines in favor of shallow emotions, and simply installing a universal minimum wage without any consideration for the discrepancies and the nuances of each market is simply immature. 


Common arguments for raising the minimum wage include it being not livable, with many of the more proactive activists citing examples of families living under 1 or 2 minimum wages. While their situation is not the best and certainly does not reflect well on Western democracy, blaming it on the minimum wage is entirely wrong and misguided. Just because they struggle to find a job and have to struggle with the minimum wage still doesn’t mean that we should increase the minimum wage just for these people and ignore all the other consequences that occur as a result. 


An analogy for the market and the effects it will suffer from a minimum wage is a set “pot” of all the money industries are willing to pay for low-level minimum-wage work within a particular region. Changing or increasing the minimum wage has no effect on this pot—demand is not attached to government regulation at all. Thus, the minimum wage still has no effect on the the amount of money reserved for poor people living off the minimum wage, but since the government is adamant on installing this needless regulation, then something needs to change to accommodate this law. Of course, since the pot, or the available amount of money still stays the same, the only thing that will change is the amount of people with access to that pot, or the amount of hours they can work. Increasing the minimum wage without increasing the pot simply limits the number of hours the industry is willing to pay for work. 


Let us return to the history of the minimum wage to get an idea of how the absurd idea of imposing an additional regulation on already stretched budgets for low level unskilled labor was established. The Industrial Revolution in America and Europe first created the idea of the overworked worker—one who spent every second of his life spent cleaning cotton mills or operating on factory lines. While this idea was not particularly new, especially to poor farming peasants who had worked even more strenuous jobs, the Industrial Revolution first sparked the notion that this didn’t have to be the way, that there was a solution. Then borne the minimum wage, the most absurd idea of the 20th century, in 1910. The decision was mostly one based on emotions and faulty human intuition, instead of proven economic theory. 


However, in spite of the emotions and the sympathy that may have overcome any logical thinking in the lawmakers when they decided to impose the minimum wage, one should at least think about something before making it law. Think: making a restrictive, blanket law on a large industry without any foresight would either force the industry to concede, or force the workers to concede. Of course, as we have all seen from history, the workers have lost and the industry have their hands up as they watch lawmakers destroy the system even further. 


While we cannot be satisfied with the current status of low level manual workers, their situation cannot be just placed on the minimum wage. Their lowering wages in absence of the minimum wage serves only as an indicator of their stale market—and forcing the indicator to go up does not help the economy or the people at all. 


Every market is an equilibrium, and in an especially crucial one that many depend their livelihoods on, playing with that equilibrium by listening to shaky rhetoric will not help at all those who we are most trying to save. Driving up the minimum wage will not drive up the overall “pot” for low level work—the money in it for poor people will remain the same.


So what are the solutions? We can either use the funds wasted on debating this issue—between logic and emotional rhetoric—over and over again and use it to fund programs to help people dependent on the minimum wage to move up the ladder. Once more and more people become less dependent on the minimum wage, and the “pot” for this low skilled work remains the same, then the minimum wage can rise naturally. We must first decrease access to this pot or suffer perhaps even unemployment within this minimum wage category. 


Another solution is to increase the “pot” and the available amount of money industry is willing to invest into minimum wage work. While this is not as easy to implement as simply installing a strict blanket minimum wage, with enough regulation and planning from the government’s part, the livelihood of these workers might be improved.