Puzzles are made to be fun, not to leave you with a headache. Solving puzzles can be good for your brain. When you run, you become more healthy, the same goes towards puzzles, but instead of making your body healthier, it makes your brain think faster and better. Some of the popular puzzles, such as sudoku, have their own world records. For me, all the activities that involves your brain are puzzles, even chess. Today, I am going to talk about some of my favorite puzzles and how they have changed my life.
I first knew about sudoku when I wa in grade one. My mom had showed me this puzzle when I  was in grade one. She has explained to me how to solve it, which was not complicated. I quickly solved it, paying no attention that I might get it wrong, and at last, I got to the last number I needed to fill in. I checked the row and column, but it contained all the numbers from one to nine. I quickly found out that you cannot just put the numbers in randomly, because other numbers can  go there too, and that number can go on another square. After my discovery, I quickly changed a few numbers around,and tada! I got it! II began to show it to my mom and she smiled with proudness that i finished the puzzle. As a result of a movie, she did not check it to see if all the answers were right. If you are wondering about the movie, my mom usually watches movies when she have free time. While my brother was checking my sudoku puzzle, I was watching him with great anticipation, hoping that he would say that it is correct. Finally, he said that it was correct. I had nothing to do after that, so I just sat around and watched a movie with my mom and my dad. 


Puzzles are really useful tool to train your brain or to pass time in case you are bored. Sudoku has been around for many years, yet, people still take them as a popular puzzle. there are many tactics and things to look for when you are solving sudoku puzzles. One tactic is the X-wing, where you can eliminate possibilities from squares, columns, and boxes. Another tactic that you can use is the Swordfish, similar to the x-wing.