Everywhere, on CNN, goes the overly optimistic hippy impeacher, the activist, the fumbling host, and the old author, who all go round and round to have a turn at bashing Donald Trump. It seems as if CNN and all the other media outlets were playing 2 truths 1 lie, but instead of telling 2 truths and 1 lie, they take turns telling 1 thing they hate about Trump. Most of the time, those things are all the same. 


While the recent actions of Trump might not have elicited some anger, those who do have a voice are certainly showcasing their anger in a series of tweets, op-eds, and worst of all, TV. 


“[list of quotes of CNN]”


What does this do? How does this help? Unless these people really believe in impeachment, then going around media ranting about Donald Trump is not going to help. 


To start, we really have to understand how Trump’s supporters really think. Any rational person would easily figure out the flaws and discrepancies in Trump’s arguments, yet, his supporters cling onto him the more irrational and made up his arguments are. Thus, we have eliminated one method of winning them over: basic reasoning. 


And while basic, logical reasoning seems like the only method of influencing people in politics, there is another facet to any person’s political views: their emotions. And emotions is the game that Trump’s supporters play the most. In fact, if you have completely disregarded any basis for logic, and only looked at our presidents argument with only your emotions, they seem reasonable. No more jobs, housing, or money? Simply limit the poor people that are taxing the economy down! Who are these “poor people”? From poor countries! So the easiest way is to simply ban immigration, with no edge cases considered, side-effects, and whether it has anything to do with the problems. 


So if we cannot play the rational man’s game of reasoning and real politics, then we can play our president’s supporters’ game of emotions and, well, nothing else. 


Let’s take a brief detour, and instead imagine how we would comfort a crying baby. Do we comfort him/her by shouting into their ears how unreasonable it was for them to break the light/jump on the bed/cross the road? Do we pour all of our anger into them at this one moment and expect them to comprehend what we are saying? Do we ridicule them with all the words in our vocabulary and showcase their wrongdoings to all of our friends, emphasizing how stupid they are? If we don’t do these things with children, then why do we do them with Trump supporters? 


Treat these supporters as if they are fragile emotionally, even though they might endorse the harshest of policies. Only then, can we successfully instill into them the fact that Trump is stupid. The key here, is to descend down to their level, and play their game of fear and emotions. When we sit on our high horses and stupidly complain about how stupid these “Trump supporters” are, talking as if they were aliens from another planet, how would we expect them to abandon their support of Trump?


One special culprit and perpetrator of this kind of thinking are late night comedians, especially those who use the pre-recorded laugh as a tool to deliver home bland messages. Especially condescending, however, is that the laugh track seems to be directed at Trump supporters. What do we expect them to learn from these laugh tracks?—that their ideas are stupid and they should be stupid for believing in that stupid idea? The plausible result for doing that is further polarization: the leftist viewers think they are smart because they are laughing at the right-wing inferiors, while the right-ist (not righteous) viewers only stray further right and fiercer in their support of Trump. 


Trump’s policies and words might elicit strong emotions in those whose political views are not compatible with his. But as the self-elected more civilized partition of politics, we should refrain from pouring all of our emotions into dissing the other side. While healing this rather wide divide might take some backing down of emotional know-nothings who have a rather loud voice (cough cough John Oliver), the left is no better than the ones they criticize when the left cannot control their emotions and end up pushing the divide even further apart.