When I was travelling with my dad home, I saw several students carrying devices. I began to wonder “ Are technologies being utilised by schools nowadays?” I could see why schools are now using technology to help them teach. First, students do not have to remember all of their homework that is due tomorrow; instead, they can just remember a device, which stores all of their homework for them. According to a national survey, 20% of the students do not complete homework; therefore, if there was a device which stores all their homework, we can hopefully decrease the percentage. Although using devices for homework results in too much screen time, scientists and psychologists say screen time can be good for children.
        Many students have a habit of forgetting homework; but with technology, we may hope to resolve and break that habit. Many teachers send their homework in paper format, but what if they send it online and into their students’ device. Although it may be very expensive for students to buy a technological device, we should consider the long-term advantages, not just short term. Recently, my teacher asked the class to take a photo, and send it to his email. I finally realized how easy it was to hand in my work. I just had to take a photo and send it to my teacher at home. Therefore, I do not have to wait until tomorrow morning and hand it it. In addition, using a device to send and do homework means less forgetting. I have forgotten my homework several times during my school years. If I had had a device, there will be less forgotten homework. It also is a bit unfair because I did the work, but I do not get any marks for it. In all, technology reduces the amount of forgotten homework students have. 
        Some may argue that students can play games on their technological devices. This could be true, but according to TED’s Daphne Bavelier, games actually make your eyesight worse. To prove that, scientists in the labs have recruited people, let them play action games, and tested their eyesight. The answer is clear: they have better eyesight than those who do not play action games. It has been believed that games lead to lack of concentration and greater distractibility. However, according to a test, teenagers do better than adults because they play more action games. Scientists make the test using several strategies and methods, but I am going to show you one. The people recruited to the lab will have to call out the colors of the words, not the word itself. The result? Action gamers do better than non-action gamers. This test introduces a conflict between the word and the color; therefore, it would take the brain a moment to resolve that conflict. 
        As you can see, we should consider not only the short-term advantages and costs, but also the long-term advantages for utilising technology in schools. Although using technology in schools means that students will have too much screen time, studies have shown action gamers actually perform better in some aspects than non-action gamers. Studies have also shown that action gamers actually have better eyesight than none action gamers. The benefits of using technology in schools include the ease of handing in assignments. Students will be less likely to forget their homework at home because all of their homework are on their device. In conclusion, if schools effectively utilise the technology nowadays, we would have a better education system.