The Grouse Grind is a trail that ascends up to 1230 meters in just 2.9 kilometers. Commonly referred to as mother nature’s stairmaster, the Grouse Grind is used by thousands of people annually and has 2380 steps (did someone counted?). However, the worst thing about it, in my opinion, is the inability to go down the trail since they say it is dangerous. The other trails are more dangerous, and hundreds of people go down them everyday, so why this trail? Anyways, to go down, one must take the Gondola down, and the ticket is 10 dollars. However, despite the convention that the Grouse Grind is considered one of the most advanced trails in BC, I think the other trails that I had gone too, including the Diez Vistas trail and the Shannon Falls one are harder than the Grouse Grind. 
        We began the long trek up after we had painstakingly found a parking spot for our car. I was surprised because after only a few minutes, I was already very tired. I think that was because I skipped the warm ups, just jumped right in to hiking the trail. Not long after that, I suddenly realized the disastrous effect of not stretching or warming up, even just for a few seconds. Therefore, I kept taking rests, and although my legs were not hurting at all, my heart felt like breaking into little pieces, maybe because of the way I breath while climbing up the trail. Luckily, the hurting abated after the ½ mark on that was nailed onto the woods on the trail. Most of the time, people passed us because they were more experienced and athletic. However, I did not mind because I was just a child and I was not timing myself. Anyways, we finally got out of the forest and reached the peak of the mountain after about 2 hours. 
        I was so happy, but on the top of the mountain, it was very hot because there were not trees that would cover the sun. However, I did not mind much after my body got used to the heat. After we ate lunch on the top of the mountain, we went to see the Birds in Motion show. Another problem occurred, the mountain air was so thin because we were so high up, and our brains were starting to wear out because we were just sitting in the hot sun, and doing nothing, which meant that the brain will lose blood. After a while, I could not stand it, so I stood up and walked around, the muscles pumping blood up. Then, a person suddenly emerged and said, “Welcome to the Birds in Motion Show!” I sat down.  The giant birds were marvelous, because I have never seen such birds before. However, the show did not last for a long time. And, by then, I was already very tired of the sun. 
        After that, we completed another 5 kilometers hike, and took the Gondola down. The view was very beautiful from the Gondola. I heard that to climb up, it would take the gondola about five minutes, but hiking up would take normally 1 hour and 30 minutes, even though we were going the same way. Anyways, we walked to our cars and drove home.