Sugar
 
Are you the one who craves for sugar the most in your family? Is your favorite food chocolate and soft drinks? Well, you are not alone; almost everyone else in the world loves sugar as much as you do. Everyone says that sugar and salt is bad for you, however, you cannot resist because sugar is just so yummy to be true.
You expect that manufacturers of processed foods to be just processing foods and selling it right? Well, I thought that too when I was young, but never again because they can do whatever they want with the food and sell it to you. Even though the label does not say, there are lots of sugar and other chemicals, especially preservatives, a chemical that is put into foods to preserve it. In other words, there can be lots of hidden chemicals that manufacturers can put into the processed food without it being labeled on the nutritional value.
Sugar is truly unhealthy for you, with the exception of sugar from fruits; however, Health Canada does not say what the recommended sugar intake for an average Canadian is. However, some experts say that you should never eat sugar, which is very healthy, but not necessarily need to be followed. In my opinion, adding sugar to processed foods is like an addiction for manufacturers. By adding sugar, manufacturers can get more sales and more customers, resulting in unhealthy people.
In addition, consuming sugar can lead to rapid spread of chronic diseases such as cancer and many others. Scientists have found out that diseased people increased dramatically. Also, containers for soft drinks and sugary drinks have increased in since they were first made. In the past, bottles were only 500 ml, but that increased to 2 litre bottles in the last decade. In my opinion, the sugar community is growing bigger and getting more famous, because sugar is so addicting! If this continues to be a threat, and if I were a leader of a country, I would definitely propose a rule that prohibits anyone eating too much sugar and also prohibiting manufacturers to not include all the ingredients used.
Sugar is very much like drugs, very addicting and unhealthy. It would be a great breakthrough for the whole world if everyone were to start eating healthy foods and manufacturers manufacturing healthy food.  One way that I think is a great way to force yourself not to eat too much sugar is prevent buying processed foods, try to pack your own food. In addition, set a budget for how much money you should spend buying foods in store.




















The Great Escape to South Korea
Every country has its own traits and personalities, just like every human living in the planet. North Korea is a very special country when you take a first glance at it, but when you look closer; you realize that most of the people living there are liars and bad people. The leader of the country is also a liar to his citizens, proposing that South Korea is a gangster country. Today, I am going to talk about a family who had lived in North Korea for a long time and escaped to Canada.
Lucia Jang’s country leader taught Lucia Jang that North Korea was the best country in the world. In addition, Kim Jung was a god, and everywhere, even at home, she would see a picture of Kim Jung. She was told that Kim Jung was such a god that you cannot even look at him, which does not make sense because people are posting pictures of him in the streets, so if you cannot look at it, then why are there so many pictures of him. Subsequently, Kim Jung died, so she cried and cried for three days consecutively, but on the fourth day, if anyone did not cry, their loyalty was in danger. Because of the law, she forced herself to cry even more, which was ridiculous, forcing someone to cry. After the Soviet Union died, North Korea was on an epidemic of starving, or maybe I should say, shortage of food. Everyone thought that the shortage was going to end shortly after, but it kept going. People would eat whatever they could eat, even wild plants and grass. At the very last moment, she and another friend continued their expedition to China, then to North Korea. She knew that crossing the risk to her life, but this was her only chance to freedom. She realized that where the water was the most active, it would be shallow, and if the water were calm, then it would be deep. She herself could not swim. Therefore, the deeper end would definitely not been her first choice. However, where the water is the most turbulent, there are guards. Luckily, she made it through without being caught, and without drowning. Her first impression of China was about the food. There, they gave her all types of food, including some of the Korean favorites, such as kim chi.
Anyways, you cannot blame the government for making all this food problem, because that is because the Soviet Union died. 


























Climate Change


Everyone should know what climate change is, a threat that lies on the arctic ice caps. Long before the humans inhabited this Earth; it was fresh, living and alive. However, our Earth became more and more ill as the humans polluted and destroyed this planet. Now, too late to come back in time, humans have realized their mistake and are trying to conserve what is left, and plant new trees.
Climate change has some different factors in it and making the arctic to warm up too quickly is one. The ever-changing arctic is becoming a different place already; animals are now struggling to survive in the unusual weather. In my opinion, a slightly change of weather would result in a huge change if we gave it some time. That is because the arctic reflects away light; however, if some spot in the Arctic absorbs it, then it makes the areas around it warm, making it a chain effect. Think about it, that damage would be very hard to reverse, or impossible if it worsens before we can detect it. As sea ice is lost, all the sunlight will be absorbed by the water and that action will make the world warmer, which we do not want to happen to our Earth.
As the water warms, causing the ice to melt, pollutants trapped beneath layers of ice will pollute the sky. Actually, so much methane, a pollutant found in garbage dumps, is trapped in the arctic that it may increase the melting rate of the ice in the arctic. Not only that there are pollutants trapped beneath the ice, but there is an unusual amount of carbon dioxide in the sky, supporting the water to absorb the sun’s heat.
Then, there this problem, ice moving into a different sea and melting, it’s ridiculous, right? Most of the ice moves into the north Atlantic sea, and melt. So that only means, in my opinion, ice can only survive in the arctic but the arctic is getting destroyed.
Also, thin ice may threaten hunters with all their weapons, because they might fall to the water to their death, or just get injured.
In my opinion, the arctic ice is getting worse than ever, so act quick, remember that chain effect that I just told you? Well, the government and the leaders are doing it, but they cannot do it alone, they need your help.






















Google’s Self Driving Car
Everyone knows that there are cars, driven by drivers, or I should say humans. However, as technology evolves, cars also evolve. By far, Google has created a self-driving car that does not need a driver to operate it. In addition, google has created several tests to make sure that the car is one-hundred percent safe. It still has not been approved by many nations that google can release it into the market.
The car uses several sensors, including the one on the roof that rotates rapidly around the car and makes a three dimensional map of what’s around the car, covering a total area of 200 feet. Why does it have to rotate so quickly? Well, that is because it needs to update the road conditions quick. Let’s say that the sensor is scanning the back, and there is a pedestrian in front, the car is not going to stop unless the sensor on the top of the roof rotates a hundred and eighty degrees and sees that pedestrian.
A second sensor, near the back wheel, plots the position of the car. It measures precise movements of the back wheel, and sends it to the computer, where it updates the position. Also, before the car sets out into the road, you have to plot your destination first, so that it can decide which route to take, just like a GPS.
A helper of the roof sensor, a sensor near the rear-view mirror recognizes pedestrians and other obstacles on the road such as bikes. Also, this sensor also recognizes traffic light and tells the car to stop when it is a red light, and run when it is a green light.
In my opinion, the world needs more technology for the car to make it to the market. One of the problems that I could think of is when the car crashes, if the driver pays attention to the road, he or she might have a few seconds to realize that he cannot stop the crash and brace himself for the crash.
Also, an advantage of a computer driving a car is that it does not get distracted from driving. In this case, if there is a sign that shows ice cream and all of your favourite treats, you might get distracted, but the computer does not. It cannot see colors, it can just see the outlines of the shape.
In my opinion, the google self-driving car is very cool and attractive to the public, but I do not think that it can get itself to the market until something happens to make the car safer than the human driver. Google had made a big difference in the world of transportation and robotics. I could tell that google was making a big difference in the world while it was inventing a new type of car too.  If the whole world could be like Google, there would be a lot of inventing and inventions going on. 
























The 2013 Google Science Fair


The 2013 Google Science Fair has been made to encourage the next generation of young scientists to come and contribute to the science world for over 10 years. Thousands of entries were received by the google science fair judges, which were whittled down to 15 finalists as the competition continues. Finally, the four grand finalists in each grade category proceeded their way to the google campus to receive their prizes, which are a scholarship, a lego trophy, and a trip to google, or Lego. Anyways, I am going to talk about one of the grand finalists’ science project, Ann Makosinski.  
 
Ann Makosinski created a flashlight using no batteries as if it had not required an energy source. She said that she was really excited to talk to the judges and show them her project, which had beaten thousands of entries from the whole wide world for the 2013 google science fair. Then, the finalists like her will visit the google campus for the prize ceremony.  How the judges sorted all of the entries out was the age category in which a competitor was in. So in this case, Ann Makosinski was in the 14-16 age category. In the prize ceremony, she said that she wanted to harvest new energy and energy that might seem useless to us.  In grade seven, she experimented with peltier tiles and how they worked and produced electricity. Then, she put the peltier tiles into her homemade flashlight. She was very surprised to find that the peltier tiles, heated by her palm on one side and cooled by flowing air on the other side, provided enough electricity to power the LED that she had used for the experiment. Therefore, she thought that she could use a transformer, a tool used to increase voltage, to make the flashlight brighter. However, it did not work the way she expected it to, the transformer was not strong enough. She finally found a web site that showed her how to make a transformer. After she saw it work for the first time, she realized that when the difference of the cool air and the heat of the palm was big, then the light would be brighter.
Even though some parts of the construction of the flashlight did not work that well for Ann Makosinski, she was a very determined person. Also, the progress was very hard, because she was working on the flashlight while she was going to school. In addition to her determination, she had sent projects to the google science fair since she was in grade 6, making 5 projects total. If everyone could be as determined as Makosinski, our world would be far ahead. If you want to be like her, you will need to be very determined.
 
In my opinion, Ann Makosinski was a very determined person, more determined than anyone else. In addition to that, she was curious too, trying different things, and I sometimes think that curious people are more likely to succeed in their life.






















Climbing mountains have always been part of humankind’s hobby, not to mention Mount Everest. For me, climbing small mountains are enough, after the experience of climbing a mountain in Vietnam. I was scared by then, and I would not try going for steep, icy mountains like Everest. Therefore, as you guessed, I would rather climb small mountains than risking my life to climb the larger ones. Anyways, climbing mountains is a very fun way to push aside all your worries and experience pure nature.
Climbers and mountaineers have tried to climb the summit of Mount Everest; Nepal tightens rules about who will go and who will not. In addition, the Nepalese government will send agents on the site to monitor climbing teams, their safety and cleanup. Everest had been a lonely mountain before the first mountaineers reached its summit. Today, dozens, sometimes hundreds, of people reach the summit with their Sherpa guides, including the one in the year two thousand twelve, where about 200 people reached the summit. When they reach the summit, they leave mounds of garbage, including food, oxygen tanks, ropes, and other supplies to reduce the weight when they are climbing back down.
In one overcrowded condition, four or more people died on two thousand and twelve. Shah-Klorfine and Fa, a Chinese mountaineer, died on the descent down the steep eight thousand eight hundred forty eight meters due to strong winds. The death of Shah-Klorfine broke her sister, Shriya Shah-Klorfine, ‘s heart. It was Shah-Klorfine’s dream to climb the top of Mountain Everest. Therefore, her godfather mortgaged his house to pay for the cost, which is almost one hundred dollars. Her family tried to recover her body at the summit, but that was not possible. One of her Sherpa said that Shah-Klorfine’s last two words were “Save me”.
Before going to the base camp at the bottom of Mount Everest, Shah-Klorfine was practicing to climb hills near her house while wearing a 20 kilograms bag pack. She heard that her parents had gone on an helicopter to go to Mount Everest before, which kept her dream about climbing the mountain.
In fact, so many climbers tried to climb the summit of Mount Everest even after 2:30 pm on the day that Shah-Klorfine died. Normally, climbers and mountaineers are instructed not to climb the mountain after 11:00 am, so you could see how late those climbers climbing at 2:30 pm are.
I felt sad for those who had died when they were trying to climb the summit of Mount Everest. If Mount Everest had been safer to climb, we would have fewer deaths.  If you want to be like her, then you should be strong and healthy as if you were the healthiest person on Earth.










Humans always have crazy ideas and imaginations, such as travelling back in time, or being the last person to be a live on Earth. Well, it’s what those ideas that makes our life interesting. In the past, humans have dreamed of reaching outer space, they had invented telescopes to see what outer space was like. While the astronomers were discovering stuff that was so cool, science back there was evolving, spaceships were being made. Well, being the last person on Earth is the same thing, although I doubt that it would happen. I am thinking that two people on Earth would be way more fun than just one person. I hope that this story is interesting.
If I was the last person to be alive on Earth, I would have many great and fun things to do. However, being the last person on Earth does not just mean fun, it also means tragedies and boring things. In the first moment that I realize that I am the last person on Earth, I will run towards the nearest store as if I was a hungry leopard chasing its favourite food. I would sabotage every store that I can walk to and look for anything that is cool, such as an electric bike. Of course, when there is nobody on Earth to take care of me, I would have to take care of myself, which I think is painstaking if I do not know most of the life skills. Also, a disadvantage of being the only person is that it kind of gets boring, especially when you are by yourself, and you have tried everything in the world. However, I am going to keep to the bright side. I might want to try to drive a car, which would be illegal if there were police on the roads. After I had learned how to drive a car, I might try to drive to an airport, and maybe learn how to fly a plane! I know all this talking is nonsense, but it may be necessary if I do not want to be bored. The reason I want to learn how to fly a plane is I want to travel to places I have never been to, such as Florida. Another reason is that because all of the governments are dead, I might be able to see top secret documents!
 As you can see, being the last person on Earth makes you do things that you have never done before, such as piloting a plane! However, I would rather be safe with many other people than be risky. I wish that I could try being the last person on Earth for about one week, then get back to the normal world.














  We human have many problems that have to be dealt with sooner or later, such as landfills, crimes, pollution, drugs, and many more. Well, guess who makes them all, humans! Humans think that they are one of the nicest species on the planet. Yet, they kill almost every animal they can find on the planet and trap them in cages.  I am not thinking that the Earth and all the other species welcome us on the planet. Are you thinking the same thing? I wish we fixed that problem earlier. 
   I had just discovered that plastic bags are illegal in Rwanda, a country in Africa. It’s ridiculous right, banning plastic bags, a very useful item. However, when you think about it, it is a very good idea to cut down on those dirty plastics that go to the landfill every day. I am thinking that is an option that any country planning to cut down on plastic bags might consider.
   The superior strength and flexibility makes those plastic bags useful and long lasting, lasting up to thousands of years in a landfill. One example is the North Pacific Gyre, a huge area of the Pacific Ocean littered with floating plastic. 
   Even though the plastic problem has been recognized for decades, nothing has been done to it. It is like seeing a problem in a machine and not doing anything about it as if it was not a big threat.
   Scientists have tried to put plastic degrading, or eating bacteria into landfills to make plastic degrade easier. 
   Another solution is to insert weak links into the long polymer chain that makes up the plastic, so it will degrade easily.
   The Leaf Rapids in Alberta is the first city in Canada to ban plastic bags completely, a very useful method. I would rather ban plastic bags completely than partly. Also, people there get along just fine when they cannot use plastic bags and Rwanda is amazingly clean, no doubt, even though I have never been there.
   Do not think that they just put up the rule and just leave it there, there are plastic bag police, and airport security also has officers to check for plastic bags. They are very strict about it.
Paper bags replacing plastic bags is not a good idea either, because it uses a lot of trees, even though Canada has a strong forest economy. 
   After all this, I hope that countries realize the problem and put an end to it. If they do not do anything about it, then maybe the problem will get bigger and be harder to fix. If we had fixed this problem earlier, the earth would have been cleaner. I hope someone does something about it. In the past, I was littering a lot while the garbage that I was throwing out was picked up by no one, which hurt the environment a lot.    




Elif Bilgin's Google Science Fair Project 
   
Have you ever won a science fair or anything big that gives you amazing prizes such as a free trip to California on a first class plane? Well, Elif Bilgin is the grand prizewinner for the fifteen to sixteen age category. Anyways, there are lots of famous people that are related to science. Therefore, it seems like to me that science is the most popular topic for researching. I am thinking that maybe this is the early part of a large breakthrough in the world: bioplastics!
“Genius is one percent inspiration and ninety nine percent perspiration.” Thomas Edison proudly said. Anyways, the Google Science Fair honors a project that can practically make a difference by making an environmental, health, or resources challenge. The Google Science Fair states that the project must be innovative, easy to use, and reproducible in other parts of the world. I hope her project has enough persuasion so that bioplastic is the main plastic used in the world, not petroleum-based plastic.
Bilgin Elif spent two years developing her project to make a type of bioplastic from discarded banana peels. For me, that is super cool, and if we use that method to produce all the plastics that we need from all around the world, then it would be great, because we would not use petroleum to make plastics anymore. However, that would cost us a lot of bananas, which would require a lot of monkeys, or there would have to be an increase in banana eating! I would rather keep the banana (not the peel) inside a food container and send it to places where people need more food and use the peels to make plastics than throwing the useful inside, or food away, since many people still need more food inn poor communities.
Enduring ten failed trials of plastics that were not strong enough or decayed rapidly, she helped her persistence and kept trying as if she had known she would win the Google Science Fair. I really admire her persistence because if I had been her, I would have quitted easily, and not win the Google Science Fair! Even Thomas Edison said, “I have not failed. I have just found 10,000 ways that will not work.” Finally, on her last two trials, she made plastic that she actually wanted, the one that does not decay quickly or stays tough and strong.
She said that she hopes the bioplastic would replace most petroleum-based plastics and replace insulation, oil pipes, and many more. I also wish that our world was more thoughtful of oil in the first place and not use too much until now. She had started working on her project long before she knew of the Google Science Fair. While Elif was finishing her project, she was searching “science project competitions” on the Google Search Engine, and the Google Science Fair was the first result.
 
I see Elif Bilgin as a hard worker, and a determined person, for she never gave up until she found the right type of plastic, hard and strong.










Wiper-less Cars
Have you ever thought about how important windshields are? In fact, without them, then ninety nine point nine nine nine nine and so on percent cars will be prohibited from driving in wet weather! I would rather not than like it, because it limits me from where I want to go. Nowadays, everything is just a push of a button away, just like in your car. For example, you just push or twist a button to activate the windshield wiper in your car, or click the power button to turn your TV on without leaving your comfy sofa. Therefore, I am thinking that humans are getting fatter or lazier every time there is new technology. I just hope that humans will find a way of exercising to get healthier. Anyways, wiper-less cars are cool right? You do not have to see the constant wiping of the wiper.


  While humans were getting smarter, technology in the past was evolving with humans too. Elite sports car maker McLaren Automotive is working on a wiper less car that will probably revolutionize wipers. When I was young, I often liked aircrafts and other flying machines very much and I know a lot about them. However, I often do not see windshield wipers on military or fighter aircraft as if the pilot did not need to see what is happening outside of the fighter plane, but I do not usually notice it, and I do not care anyways about them. However, I know now that we can use the same technology used on the military aircraft on cars. The usual black stick in front of my windshield is somewhat annoying, as it blocks my view of the things that are happening outside of the car. Also, there has been a widespread of speculation that the new system would generate very high frequency waves or ultrasound, kind of like those produced by devices that dentists use to remove tartar from their patients’ teeth. However, that system is not the first one to be ever made, a similar system, patented by Motoda Electronics, was the first one that I know of. The system that had been patented by Motoda Electronics before McLaren Automotive was called the ultrasonic wiper. The machine consisted of vibration-generating oscillators on the top and bottom of the windshield to get rid of the rain or/and snow on the windshield.
 
In my opinion, I not really in favor of the wiper less windshield because the new machine could be producing a lot of vibrations while the animals would pick those up, confused, which will lead to more complicated problems. In addition, if the new vehicle is travelling beside a farm, things could be much worse because the animals in the farm will think of those as other animals, and the signal is way stronger too. If the system did not produce that much commotion, I would probably be in favor with the idea of wiper less cars. However, I wish that there would be some other way of pushing off rain and snow without wipers.






Things and objects always get old and die. According to me, objects can never exist forever, even the Earth. That is because if there was a giant comet travelling at incredible speed towards the earth, we cannot prevent it, even with our latest technology. However, I could think of a machine that could do that, but it has not been patented. Anyways, water can even get very old and just vanish as if it just evaporated into the air. Even though that never happened, I am pretty sure that will happen someday, it could even happen when all the humans died. However, I am just going to talk about scientists touching the oldest water. The name seems pretty ridiculous to me, but I am sure that it will be worth a lot of money if it is in the market.
 
A Russian drilling expedition in Antarctica is close to drilling out four kilometers of ice to reveal Lake Vostok, which has not seen the sun for millions of years. It is very fascinating and cool, but the project has international scientists that are seriously concerned about the contamination of the lake. I wish that governments would not make a commotion on that site. All the other lakes in the world are polluted, but this very special lake is not. However, I think that it will be taking a very long time for the lake to be polluted to the same point as the other lakes once the lake sees sunlight, or is revealed. I would rather keep the lake isolated than make it a tourist attraction because the existence of humans almost always ruin the nature and beautifulness of it. Lake Vostok had been under four kilometers of ice before Russia and other scientists drilled out most of it. Even though they have not reached the lake yet, they say they are very close, and quitting because of a blizzard or failure of machines is not really an option because they have come so far just to reveal this special lake. The second reason why quitting is not really an option is because the project has cost a huge amount of money. I hope that this is not the only lake that had not seen sunlight for millions of years because then archeologists can study and may reveal some of the wonders that they have.
 
In the past, I was thinking that archeologists’ work were boring while I was thinking of what job I should do. However, I was wrong, archeologists’ work seems more exciting to me, but I still would not choose being and archeologist as my dream job. 




In space, things have no gravity, so everything just floats around as if they were in the water. However, scientists say that the Earth, because of its size, has gravity. That means that big, very big, things have gravity that we can feel, and small things also have gravity, but not as much. Therefore, it makes it very hard for astronauts to work around their space station, either using tools or just eating, since the food can float around, and it hits the wall, and it makes a dirty mess. Anyways, there is a cargo ship that was supposed to go to space last month, but bad weather at the launch site, cooling system breakdown, then a strong solar storm interfered with the flight path. If none of those things had happened, the cargo ship would have reached the International Space Station faster. I would rather wait until all of those things go by than launch the ship immediately.


 All that that I just talked about is only the beginning of it. There will be a second launch of another Cygnus, which is going to be the real one, under the 1.9 billion contract with NASA.  At last, Christmas has arrived for six astronauts on the space station. The cargo ship Cygnus carried cargo, equipments and experiments for NASA, and ants for an educational project. There are also some Christmas gifts and presents from the families of those astronauts, and fruits from NASA. The company that made the Cygnus was Orbital Sciences Corp., a Virginia company. While the Cygnus was being grabbed by one of the International Space Station’s robotic arms,  flight controllers for the company was cheering in red company shirts. It took almost two hours to get the Cygnus secured into the hatch. They, the astronauts, had been told to open the hatch after Monday because of the long day. However, I do not think they would obey as a result of the presents they are eager to open. Also, as a holiday treat, NASA is sending fruits for the astronauts.


However, Orbital Sciences is going to make another run that is official and under the 1.9 billion contract with NASA. Oh yeah, and if you want to know what will happen to the Cygnus, he will be filled with trash, cut loose, and sent down to a fiery re-entry to Earth. In my opinion, it is very important that astronauts need supplies, but all those launches pollute the Earth. I wish that there could be some way of getting things into space without polluting the Earth. I hope that scientists figure out a better way to bring equipments up into space, since that could reduce pollution levels a lot.




There are many diseases and sickness that need to be treated. However, there are still some diseases that scientists and physicians have not developed a cure. Fortunately, that is just one or two or three diseases.  Canadian Harvard medical school associate professor Jeffrey Karp invented a new adhesive, and it can seal a beating heart! Jeffrey Karp was inspired by the sticking ability of slugs, and went on to make his own. Not only the new adhesive could seal holes in a beating heart, but it can also seal holes in a tissue.


The new adhesive could replace staples,stitches, and sutures to close or seal wounds. Another advantage of the new adhesive is that it is water resistant, and elastic. What I mean by water resistant is that it still sticks if there is blood or water around the wound. Also, the elastic is very useful as it allows the adhesive to expand and contract as the heart pumps blood around the body. The new adhesive is not like normal glue, the glue only becomes active, or sticks, when ultraviolet light shines on it. That way, surgeons can carefully and more accurately glue wherever is needed. The adhesive is also biodegradable, which means that it can degrade in the body, and go out of the body through the buttocks. Sutures and mechanical staples and stitches are not mechanically similar to the tissues in our body, so they hurt and do not allow free movement of whatever the body part is. Karp, who is the co director of of the Center for Regenerative Therapeutics at the Brigham and Women’s Hospital said that sutures and staples are not really related to the tissue, and they can induce stress over time. The new adhesive is made up of glycerol and sebacic acid, which will degrade over time in the body, and cells will evade into it, and the wound will remain closed, and the patient will not need any further operations. It’s as simple as that. To prove that the adhesive is not harmful and the facts that I just talked about above are true, Jeffrey Karp tested it on the hearts of rats and pigs. Researchers hope the new adhesive will be available and in the market in the next two to three years. 


  I wish that the adhesive could be in the market sooner. While humans were developing medicine for diseases, people were dying because there was no cure yet. 






Humans was finding and discovering many ways of communication while the phones were not being sold. In my opinion, the use of phones has affected and forced many people to do nasty things, such as divorcing or being forced to leave their homes. Moreover, technology is still evolving, and I think that the case of people being forced to do nasty things is going to be worse, as a result of the new tech. There is also the Internet, which is a vast network of sites and blogs. As more and more people, become connected to the Internet. Also, for easier and more convenient levels of communication, humans have invented SMS, or instant messaging, and I will talk more about that in the proceeding paragraph.
 
        SMS, also known as instant messaging, has grown very popular in the world, especially in North America. NSA, aka National Security Agency, received almost 200 millions of text messages every day. I guess that is because of the many things that students, professors, residents, and people have many things to communicate to each other. Sure, they can just phone each other, but when they have things to say a hundred times a day, then it would be very inconvenient and tiring. So in that case, it would be best to text, since the recipient of the text message can always respond to the message at his own pace whenever he has his phone with him. In general, sending text messages is very useful when you have to communicate with someone. However, I think there have been an overuse of text messages recently. There are so many text messages sent each day. The NSA will intercept all of the information and communication it possibly can. Moreover, the NSA will especially analyse information between spy groups, such as FBI or Mi6. I think they did that because they wanted to know whether the spy groups are doing anything suspicious or not. However, some of those calls and messages from other countries but the United States of America, Canada, and United Kingdom are deleted from the list. Anyways, the NSA can do such amazing things like tracking calls and text messages. I think it is very uncomfortable to know that such an organization would do that, but they have to to serve the government.
 
In  my opinion, the text messages that are sent everyday must be very important, because why would people send some many text messages everyday?
 
                                                                                                                             Recently, the H1N1 virus has affected many people. Some of those victims did not get the H1N1 flu shot, which increased the chance of them being sick. Actually, people had to get the flu shot before in December. However, they can still get a flu shot in pharmacies. I do not know why some people still do not get the flu shot, maybe because they think they are healthy and strong or they think it hurts a lot when the needle goes into their skin. Anyways, there are not a lot of flu vaccine supply in pharmacies. While people in Alberta and many other provinces were using up all the flu vaccine, the other people were delaying the flu shots.


Fortunately, Canada has found an additional zero point five of a million it could purchase to meet the needs of the ascending late-season demand for flu shots. However, that is still not enough flu shots if the people in Eastern Canada follow the rush to get flu shots. The original order for flu vaccine was 10.4 million doses. That is a lot of doses compared to last year’s purchase. Doctors and pharmacies returned about ninety thousand unused doses. Last year’s flu had been harsher than this year, but the main virus, or strain,  this year is the H1N1 virus. The H1N1 virus can affect young to middle aged people very hard. In addition to the many people dying of the H1N1 virus, Canada, especially Alberta, is short on the flu vaccine, due to the ascending demand. 


The group that produces flu vaccines for Canada is working very hard to try to meet the needs of pharmacies and doctors. The jobs sounds as if air traffic control was controlling a busy international airport after a severe storm. As a result of the ascending demand, Canada will purchase an additional 245,800 doses. In addition,  the government of Canada will purchase 60000 more doses for the Canadian Armed Forces, RCMP, and for the First Nations. 


Provinces and Territories must submit orders, or how much vaccine they need months in advance, because the federal government needs to know how much severe is the demand. 


In my opinion, it is very hard for the government and other groups know how much vaccine they need. One good example is last year, where pharmacies return about 90000 doses. Moreover, Canada ordered 10.4 million doses. In many years, there would be still left over vaccine with that enormous amount. I have never been in a pandemic before, and I hope this case would not be a pandemic either!




Ever since humans discovered and sent robots to space, there has been dozens of activity in it, and money invested on traveling there too. I tend to think that wherever humans go, that place will be polluted, dirty, and not like it had been before. In other words, wherever they go, that place changes. One example is the Earth, before, it had been clean, but it was getting dirty while humans were living on it. I hope that space would not get dirty in the future because of humans.  I also wish that we had more efficient ways of bringing materials or humans up to space, because the thought of using rockets make me think that the Earth will be filled with dangerous gases sooner or later.
I think that this is the year where governments, prime ministers, dictators, and many other leaders and countries focus on space as if another breakthrough was made. Therefore, many space breakthroughs will be made by many countries, which will develop other breakthroughs that may expand our understanding of space and the planets in it. This year, a space probe built by Russia is going to travel to a comet and land on it, an act that no country or person has done before. I do not know what speeds that comet travel at, but I am sure that it must be very hard because that probe has been orbiting for almost ten years to reach this comet. If this mission fails, I will probably be very mad because Russia spent all this time for nothing. I have never seen a comet before, but I will be sure to check out images from the mission in November. I would rather stay at the base and control the mission than go on the mission because I might die.
There are also two space probes or space craft that will enter Mars’ orbit, one from NASA, and one from the India. The MAVEN, which is from NASA, will study the slowly disappearing Martian atmosphere. The Mars Orbiter Mission, also known as Mangalyaan, will search for signs of methane, which might be biological activity. I thought that India was a very poor country, and therefore could not build anything. However, I was wrong; I just found out that India had built several spaceships already.
In addition, to prepare for the future astronauts that will travel to the moon, America is sending the Orion with no people on board in 2014. The Orion was designed to mimic the feeling of the astronauts when they return to Earth’s atmosphere. The Orion will fly so high, up to 5000 kilometers above the planet. If you do not know how high that is, the International Space Station is 400 kilometers above the planet, and the Orion will fly 5000 kilometers above the planet. If I had my own country, I would team up with another country to do space exploration.
I think that this year should be called the year of space.


Everyone needs food to survive. However, some of the foods that contain meat requires killing. Therefore, most animals become extinct or die. Also, there are also many different types of eating food, one is vegetarian, and a similar one is vegan. Vegetarian people do not eat meat, so they eat all types of vegetables and grain products. Vegan is basically the same thing, but they have tighter limitations. Vegans do not eat meat, and do not eat products that come from animals, such as milk or eggs.
The food of the future is here! It is the Franken burger! In this case, it is a very weird name, a burger that is Franken?  In the first public bite of the meat that was grown in the laboratory, two volunteers took the challenge. In order for them to focus on the meat itself, both tasters removed the bun, lettuce, and sliced tomatoes. Both volunteers gave the lab grown meat good texture, but they said that there was something missing. “It is a good start” said the Dutch scientist who led the team that grew the meat from cattle stem cells, Mark Post. The lab grown meat took the scientist over five years to make it. I am thinking that the first lab grown meat that appears in fast food restaurants will be very exclusive.  
The lab grown meat project was funded by the Google co-founder; he said that the project has motivated him to improve animal welfare. The project cost three hundred thousand dollars. If I had been the Google co-founder, I would have definitely funded for the project because I want people to not kill animals.
Scientists agreed that improving the flavour of the meat will not be a big problem or concern as long as we can put in fat cells. Also, taste is the least important concern because some of the stem cell can be grown into fat cells. I also think that adding fat to the hamburger this way will be healthier than getting the fat itself from chunky animals in farms.
If you are wondering where they got all their materials, they got their cells from a cows’ shoulder, and let the cells develop until they have enough cells. While the cells from the cow’s shoulder were developing, the developed cells were developing new cells, which makes a chain effect. It took twenty thousand strands of meat to make a single one hundred forty grams patty. I would rather eat the lab grown bun than a normal bun.
I think that the hamburger is so healthy as if it could heal any sickness. I wish that I could try the bun that was grown in the lab. I hope that the bun will be made public, so everyone becomes healthier.