Why my mom and my dad are the greatest
Why my mom and my dad are the greatest
Have you ever thought that how you could grow up and be healthy without your parents? Well, I think that it is impossible to become a men or a woman if you do not have your parents to help you, with the exception of cave dwellers and Cro-Magnon. Well, today, I am going to talk about how my dad and mom are the greatest. I hope you enjoy it.
Well, I did not remember this, but my mom used to say that when I peed on my bed as if it had been a toilet, she usually move me to the dry spot, and my mom sleeps on the wet spot, which was gross. Anyways, I peed on my bed when I was young, as young as 7 years old, when I was in grade 2. However, I had not peed on my bed since grade 4. Also, my mom has said that she cared a lot about me when I was young, because I could not do anything by myself at that time. She also said that I was kicking her a lot while I was being in her stomach, and it hurt a lot, according to her perspective. If I had felt how it hurt whenever the baby kicked my stomach, I would have screamed at my loudest voice. Speaking of that, my mom must have endured a lot of pain before I was born out into the world. I can imagine how much work there must be, cooking, patting, changing diapers, teaching, buying, and many more. Anyways, my parents are so helpful to me that I could not think of a way I could be like this. Not only that you should respect and care for your parents, you should care for your grandparents, siblings, and many other members of your family. At first, I thought that my parents love themselves the most, then me. However, I was wrong, my parents love me the most, and themselves second. They say that if I need any extra body parts, they will give it to me, not regarding their life.
As I can see, my parents sacrificed a lot just for me to be like this. Therefore, I should love my parents and not hate them. Anyways, being a parent is always fun, but sometimes hard when you have to do stuff that you do not want to. I would rather be a child than a parent. I wish I had felt the pain that mom endured when I was in her stomach.