I was walking with my dad when I noticed a change in the environment. The dust from the ancient building clogged my nostrils so hard that I had look away in order to breath. I suddenly thought, “Are they demolishing the ancient buildings?” I realized they did that because the city was very crowded and they needed more space. However, they should also consider the long-term advantages of leaving the old buildings. First and foremost, the city would have more tourists. Therefore, that will be a great opportunity for hotels, parks, and cruise companies to make money. Not only do businesses make money because of  the ancient buildings, but the city also makes money because of the higher employment rate, increasing flights, and of course, increased tourists. 
        Because there will be more tourists coming to the city, businesses will have a greater chance of making money. Many cities think adventure parks and futuristic buildings will attract many tourists; however, statistics prove otherwise. According to MasterCard's new Global Destination Cities Index, Thailand will be the most famous tourist destination in 2013. Since Thailand has not only historic attractions but also adventure and futuristic attractions. I think that Thailand will have a lot of money this year because of the increased amount of tourists. My father’s friend once owned a cruise company, and he made huge amounts of money by moving to the city with the most tourists. In addition, hotels can benefit from increased tourists too. Instead of selling rooms at low prices, they can increase the price because they know tourists will depend on them to get a room. Parks can also benefits from that. For example, when my family went to Disneyland, lucky for us, we bought our tickets before Disneyland make the prices sky-high.
        On the other hand, many cities have a reason for demolishing ancient buildings. Their city are very crowded; therefore, they decide to demolish old buildings in order to build new ones. However,