Cities should preserve historical buildings instead of demolish them


I was walking with my dad when I noticed a change in the environment. The dust from the ancient building clogged my nostrils so hard that I had look away in order to breath. I suddenly thought, “Are they demolishing the ancient buildings?” I realized they did that, because the city was very crowded, and they needed more space. However, they should also consider the long-term advantages of leaving the old buildings. First and foremost, the city would have more tourists. It would be a great opportunity for hotels, parks, and cruise companies to make money. Not only do businesses make money because of  the ancient buildings, but the city also makes money because of the higher employment rate, and an increased amount of tourists. 
        As a result of the fact that will be more tourists coming to the city, businesses will have a greater chance of making money. Many cities think adventure parks and futuristic buildings will attract many tourists; however, statistics prove otherwise. According to MasterCard's new Global Destination Cities Index, Thailand will be the best tourist destination in 2013. Since Thailand not only has historic attractions but also has adventure and futuristic attractions. I think that Thailand made a lot of money last year because of the increased amount of tourists. My father’s friend once owned a cruise company, and he have made huge amounts of money by moving his services to the most popular tourist destination. In addition, hotels can benefit from increased tourists too. Instead of selling rooms at low prices, they can increase the price,  because they know tourists will depend on them to get a room. Parks can also benefit from that. For example, when my family have gone to Disneyland, lucky for us, we had bought our tickets before Disneyland made the prices sky-high.
        On the other hand, many cities have a reason for demolishing ancient buildings. Their city are very crowded; therefore, they decide to demolish old buildings in order to build new ones. However, cities can build up. In case you did not know, cities can always make existing buildings taller. The city would receive tourists not only from historical buildings, but also futuristic buildings. However, if more tourists come, rates or prices may go up; therefore, not only would it decrease the amount of tourists, but it would also increase the money earned. My family have[a] gone to Florida,and at that time, the city was very crowded. The prices were nothing like what we expected; they were super expensive.
        There are many advantages of preserving old buildings. One of the main advantages is having more business and money. The city could get rich by just preserving historical buildings. More tourists will come to them, and not only would they get rich, but they would also have a reputation for being the most famous tourism city. Therefore, having futuristic buildings and adventure parks does contribute to the amount of tourists, but many tourists would prefer historical buildings rather than futuristic buildings and adventure parks. In conclusion, cities should consider the advantages of not destroying historical buildings.


[a]I did


Present perfect: no time