Scientists have been keeping an eye out for any aliens out of this Earth, especially Mars. Using our latest technology and robots, we, scientists have found out that there might be water on Mars that might accommodate life.
  This fact has stayed around for a very long time. Long before the electronics or technology era, scientists revealed, using telescopic images, long thin lines criss-crossing the planet, which either meant that it was made by Martians or nature-made. According to the latest results from the two robotic spacecraft, the big crater where it had once landed was a lake 3.7 years ago. Therefore, Mars must have been a warm and humid planet thousands or millions of years ago, when water flowed freely on the surface, just like Earth.
  In my opinion, out of the eight planets in our solar system, only Earth and Mars have water. However, Mars did not remained that way all the way to the modern world. The planet must have struck an extreme ice age and never recuperated. That must have made the water become permafrost or ice.
 You might not realize it, but an atmosphere or climate of a planet can change dramatically, just like Mars. Even though there is no water on Mars today, scientists are still keeping an eye out for the  Red Planet.
  When scientists had put down a glass of water down on Mars using the Curiosity, the water inside quickly evaporated just like it did in space, due to the low atmospheric pressure. According to my opinion, we are far away from terraforming Mars into a more hospitable planet, enough to support human life. 
I thought of that because since a cup of water cannot even survive such a brief period, how are we going to walk without a spacesuit on Mars? Moreover, since our body needs an enormous amount of water intake per day, where would we get that water, and how are we going to store it so that it won’t evaporate?


The thought of terraforming Mars into a planet that can accommodate life is a fool’s mission for me. I think that we need to build our confidence and have more hi-tech robots and stuff to terraform it. However, the thought of that did not discourage me to help scientists build things that will help me and many other people survive on Mars, because living on an artificial planet is a cool thing to do.










cbc