Adroit Journal Application


What is it about our program and mission that piques your interest? Why this workshop? How would you spend your time with us? ~500 words


writing in class when I was bored. scribbles on the margins of my math notebook, trying to fit as as best a story i could that the 2.5 inch margin provided. 


On the lucky days when I still had a stack of blank paper in the back of my binder, I would write little stories on them, or if my imagination was lacking that day for any sort of fiction, then I would recount all the encounters I had that day, the troubles with my teachers, the internal argument on whether I should focus on finding x and y or finding the story within the blank lines of the paper. 


I felt that there was something lacking between me and writing—even though I participated in the activity almost every minute that I wasn't doing something else, I still felt there was some disconnect. And then I realized, that up until this point, I had never even considered a writing "tutor." In grade 2, when my only source of English was the words "yes," "no," and "hello," which I had learned from my Vietnamese friend as the English greeting. After all, it made sense—we couldn't afford a writing tutor, much less one that requested $30 dollars an hour which had been an exorbitant amount then, considering we had just immigrated and were unstable. (sentence variety). 


Colorful picture books were soon replaced with thicker comics, and subsequently, replaced with thicker paperbacks. I had spent as much effort reading these books as I had spent keeping them together, as the seams were ripped and the pages close to falling off. No matter how tattered they were, however, my parents had always insisted on preserving them, if they could be given away or sold. 


Throughout all that time, my whole English world was defined by Dr. Seuss's cats and hats, Jack and Annie and a treehouse, which I had learned through a thick black dictionary beside me was "a typically suspended structure among tree branches." The first few years of school in Canada were nothing extraordinary, and my English picked up to where I could converse with my classmates. It didn't stop there, however, and my previous voracious love for reading (as well as poring over the dictionary) continued. Somehow, as all moms are inevitable to find, my mom found a paper copy of a reading list, titled "Top 100 Books to Be Successful in High School." First up was "The Old Man and the Sea." Next, "Of Mice and Men." After that, "The Hobbit." On the 11th or 12th book, my mom had lost the reading list, but that didn't matter: I sought out my own books. 


I was part of the under-the-desk reading group, that did not have official meetings but rather diverged onto their respective worlds once the long math lesson started and the teacher wasn't looking our way. This "club" was brought to an end by on-the-lookout teachers, but stubborn me decided that if I wasn't going to get *my* fair share of words to consume, then I was going to make them.