Adroit Journal Application


What is it about our program and mission that piques your interest? Why this workshop? How would you spend your time with us? ~500 words


writing in class when I was bored. scribbles on the margins of my math notebook, trying to fit as as best a story i could that the 2.5 inch margin provided. 


On the lucky days when I still had a stack of blank paper in the back of my binder, I would write little stories on them, or if my imagination was lacking that day for any sort of fiction, then I would recount all the encounters I had that day, the troubles with my teachers, the internal argument on whether I should focus on finding x and y or finding the story within the blank lines of the paper. 


I felt that there was something lacking between me and writing—even though I participated in the activity almost every minute that I wasn't doing something else, I still felt there was some disconnect. And then I realized, that up until this point, I had never even considered a writing "tutor." In grade 2, when my only source of English was the words "yes," "no," and "hello," which I had learned from my Vietnamese friend as the English greeting. After all, it made sense—we couldn't afford a writing tutor, much less one that requested $30 dollars an hour which had been an exorbitant amount then, considering we had just immigrated and were unstable. (sentence variety). 


Colorful picture books were soon replaced with thicker comics, and subsequently, replaced with thicker paperbacks. I had spent as much effort reading these books as I had spent keeping them together, as the seams were ripped and the pages close to falling off. No matter how tattered they were, however, my parents had always insisted on preserving them, if they could be given away or sold. 


Throughout all that time, my whole English world was defined by Dr. Seuss's cats and hats, Jack and Annie and a treehouse, which I had learned through a thick black dictionary beside me was "a typically suspended structure among tree branches." The first few years of school in Canada were nothing extraordinary, and my English picked up to where I could converse with my classmates. It didn't stop there, however, and my previous voracious love for reading (as well as poring over the dictionary) continued. Somehow, as all moms are inevitable to find, my mom found a paper copy of a reading list, titled "Top 100 Books to Be Successful in High School." First up was "The Old Man and the Sea." Next, "Of Mice and Men." After that, "The Hobbit." On the 11th or 12th book, my mom had lost the reading list, but that didn't matter: I sought out my own books. 


I was part of the under-the-desk reading group, that did not have official meetings but rather diverged onto their respective worlds once the long math lesson started and the teacher wasn't looking our way. This "club" was brought to an end by on-the-lookout teachers, but stubborn me decided that if I wasn't going to get *my* fair share of words to consume, then I was going to make them. 


The inconspicuous margins around my worksheets and notes were battlegrounds for invented characters, or a mourning place for the sad moments I had that day. Every blank space wider than a couple of inches was prime place for my imagination. 


It was as if my imagination was a bucket under an always flowing tap of water: you had to dump the contents out on paper before you could get new ideas. 


This would continue on to high school, and I wrote like a sieve—the good ones would stay with my brain and which I would later type up on my computer, while all the others would wound up in the stack of worksheets I would later hand in. 
__________________


Writing then stuck with me for every waking second of my life, and even in the times in math class or science class, there had always been some trace of writing—either that be thinking of my next character or actually writing in the margins. Up until now, however, that was all I had done for writing. Never taken any classes outside of the normal high school English courses, and the only example of "good" writing I had was the library. 


I wasn't sure if a tutor or a teacher would be helpful—after all, my English classes were as mundane as my math class, save for the few days in which we actually wrote (which was not much). The rest of the time was spent explaining the definitions of words to a novel I had finished a year ago, and doing endless grammar worksheets. I couldn't have cared less about grammar. 


Nevertheless, all my searches for a relevant writing tutor had (wc) ended with promises to get an "A" or pass a course. An "A" was the last thing I wanted. I already had an "A." I wanted somebody that would act less like a tutor or teacher and act more of a coach: fixing the niches of my writing and providing critique, but not being as intrusive as a teacher or a tutor would. I wanted somebody that couldn't care less whether I got an A or a C+ on English class, or whether I was above or below grade level. All I wanted was somebody that would give me feedback and advice, yet I could find none who could do that. 


________________


That was 2 months ago. Now, I think I have found the perfect fit: the Adroit Journal Summer Mentorship Program. It has everything that I have looked for: a sort of "coaching" strategy with good writers who would comment on my work. 


I have always believed in the practice makes perfect strategy, which applies especially true to writing. There was nothing more to learn, despite all my English teachers' attempts, other than basic grammar rules and the most basic words. After that, it was just more writing and more reading. However, a mentor would be a helpful new eye to provide a different perspective to my writing, after years of it manifesting only under my imagination, and the books I had read.