A miniature 7 year old me sprawled over the stained living room carpet in the small basement of a rented suburban house.


“‘Naoww, I one-ly diss-dissrha—” it breathed in a big gasp of air in frustration. “—bute pigs to early risers,’ saiiiiid.” Another big gasp of air. “Mr. Arrr-arhable.” 3 months ago, I had moved halfway across the world into a country so vastly different from my noisy, loud, but familiar hometown of Saigon.


Charlotte’s Web was my first English book, but The Oxford Dictionary—a big, intimidating black book—remains a close contender. I might have spent more time flipping through the pages of the dictionary than reading Charlotte’s Web, but this description makes the beginning of my English “journey” much less picturesque.


About 4 years and many more dictionary pages flipped later, my mom found a paper list of “College-Prepatory books,” as was inevitable with mine. We started with The Old Man and the Sea, then Of Mice and Men, and Animal Farm. We had lost the list then, but I chose and read books on my own accord, this time without the big black book besides me.


This love of reading turned to writing, which happened mostly in science or math class. Any textbook margin wider than 1 inch was prime space for my writing to carry my imagination wherever it needed to go. Somedays, the pair were fast and went round and round the margins, sometimes creeping up next to the math equations; while other days, they were much slower, and I could only fill a part of the margin. The stories I wrote always ended when the margin was filled up, and the better ones I would go on to write again on a proper piece of paper.


I looked forward to writing in math class. Nevertheless, I couldn’t come to say that my favorite subject was English, and even worse, I was scared to say that I liked writing. Distant relatives at family gatherings would ask what my favorite subject was in passing, and I would hestitate before saying “math or science,” to the smiles of a family composed of accountants and engineers. 


I had tried answering “writing” once to the same question, only to a plethora of dissapproving questions, one of which was “what the hell can you do with writing,” to which I muttered a silent “I don’t know.” 


How could I even like writing when I had plenty of awards in math competitions, yet only a few in writing competitions? How could I like something I figured out by practicing on 1-inch margins and reading past midnight until 2 AM?


I needed a proper writing teacher. Not one who promised a “quick path to an A” for a meager $50 dollars per hour. The English teacher didn’t suffice with over 30 students to care for and who put more emphasis on using correct verb tense than on letting us just write. Getting perfect on verb tenses and identifying run-on sentences didn’t make my feel any closer to being a writer.


I hope that with a writing mentor, my writing will benefit from another more experienced perspective and I could practice in a more structured manner, unlike how I had learned by writing stories in the margins. Writing, a craft so dear to my heart but not my mouth, had been suppressed inside as the words “math and science” sticks like glue on the tip of my tongue. A mentor who could push me to use the summer free time to write even more, to try to displace the fail-safe words “math and science,” for what I truly love: writing. But without someone to push me to continually write—on the smallest of margins and the worst of days—I might still resort back to “math and science,” nonetheless to the cheers of family. I hate math and science.