INTERNET: GOOD OR BAD


Two years ago, I had been very excited when our family had an Internet connection before I realized the risks of having wifi. According to a study made by China researchers, wifi could cause brain damage to adolescents who overuse Internet. Therefore, a risk is involved with the usage of wifi. On the other hand, students could get access to vast resources on the Internet; and therefore, improve their education. In addition, have you ever wanted to contact with this person who is on the other half of the world? Internet makes it easier to contact people. However, overuse of Internet can cause brain damage. The Internet is very useful because it provides useful resources for students and it makes communication between people easier. 
        The Internet has made communication easier around the world. In the past, sharing a file so that people all around the world can see it seemed as hard as building a base in the moon in the present! However, with the wide use of the Internet, it is becoming easier to share information. The benefits of using Internet also includes people becoming more social and students receiving better education. Communication/email servers offers free video or just voice calls on the Internet. As a result, office workers can communicate and send files to each other with ease. This also benefits family members because they can contact each other when they are really far away. Not only do Internet has made communication easier, but also education easier. 
        The Internet contains a vast variety of resources for students or parents to learn more about things. Although students can use encyclopedias to help them research, the Internet is more reliable because the Internet has more resources that the encyclopedia. According to the University of Florida, students can “relate their interests on a personal level”, which encourages the independence students need. Therefore, students are motivated to do better in schools. Not only do the Internet helps students, but also helps teachers and parents. Parents who have little or no English skills may depend upon the Internet to help them. In addition, parents can be more involved in their child’s education by accessing online school resources such as libraries and the school website. Students can also use the Internet if their textbook(s) do not make sense or if they need more information. In brief, the Internet is a powerful tool to help improve education for students and parents.
        Some may argue that the overuse of Internet can cause brain damage.