The Internet is More Frustrating Than Useful


Two years ago, I had been very excited when our family had an Internet connection because the Internet is very useful in some aspects. First and foremost, students can utilise the resources on the Internet; and therefore, learners can turn in better work and improve their mark. Likewise,  Internet connects the world together; the Internet enables us to contact anyone with an Internet. Nonetheless, the overuse of Internet can cause brain damage. The Internet is very useful because it provides resources for students and makes communication between people easier.
                The Internet has made communication easier around the world. In the past, sharing a file publicly seemed very hard. However,  the wide use of Internet makes it easier to share files. The benefits of using Internet also include the fact that more people are becoming socialized. Communication/email servers offer free video or voice calls on the Internet. As a result, office workers can communicate and send files to each other with ease. This also benefits family members because they can contact each other when they are really far away. Not only do Internet has made communication easier, but also education easier.
                The Internet contains a vast variety of resources for students or parents to learn more. Although students can use encyclopaedias to help them research, the Internet is more reliable because it has more resources than the encyclopedia. According to the University of Florida, students can “relate their interests on a personal level”, which encourages the independence students need. Therefore, students are motivated to do better in schools. Not only do the Internet helps students, but also helps teachers and parents. Parents who have little or no English skills can depend upon the Internet to help them. In addition, parents can be more involved in their child’s education by accessing online school resources such as library website and the school website. Students can also use the Internet if their textbook(s) do not make sense or if they need more information. In brief, the Internet is a powerful tool to help improve education for both students and parents.
        Some may argue that the Internet has bad information on it; therefore, it would affect young children. However, many virus and Internet security programs block websites that should not be trusted or contains bad information that kids should not see. In addition, websites that are severely inappropriate may be blocked by the government or organizations which report on bad sites. I do not think young children use Internet much because they are busy playing with their toys or sleeping. Based on my personal experience, I did not use the Internet or considered it as a useful tool until grade 1, where I finally realized how powerful it is. Usually, when you click on the link of an untrusted website, a warning sign pops up and says something like “ This website is not for children”. Furthermore, older children learn whether or not to trust a website. In all, many young children do not have reasons for going on the Internet; and older children should know whether or not to trust a website.   
                There are many good reasons to consider when referring to the Internet. The Internet solves the communication problems we have every day. Furthermore, the Internet improved education by providing great resources for students, teachers, and parents. Not only do parents learn from the Internet, but they can also be more involved in their child’s education. However, the Internet also has its disadvantages. The overuse of the Internet can cause brain damage to humans, especially kids. However, according to General Psychology, the brain can automatically fix itself within an amount of time. Therefore, the brain damage will not be permanent. The Internet is a powerful tool to improve education and communication.