Henry Nguyen
Grade 5
The Internet is More Frustrating Than Useful
In 2009, when I was still in Vietnam, it was very hard to do some of my projects in school because our house had no Internet connection. However, I could do my projects more efficiently. I also realized that there were other benefits of having an Internet connection, too. First and foremost, utilising the resources on the Internet helps me to get better marks.  Likewise,  the Internet connects the world; it enables me and other people to contact anyone with the Internet. Despite the threat of Internet Addiction Disorder, it can be very useful because it provides resources for students and makes communication between people easier.
                The Internet has made communication easier around the world. In the past, sharing a file publicly was slower. However,  the wide use of the Internet makes it faster to share files. The Internet helps people find relationships easier. Many of my relatives have found good relationships on the Internet. Therefore, had the Internet not been there, it would have been next to impossible for them to form relationships. Although many cyberbullies are on these websites, many people are aware of them and studies clearly show the truth. According to researchers, cyberbullying has actually decreased since 2011. Communication/email servers offer free video or voice calls on the Internet; as a result, office workers can communicate and send files to each other with ease. This also benefits family members because they can contact each other when they are really far away. My father calls his mother, who lives on the other side of the world, with an email server very oftenly. The Internet has made easier for not only communication, but also education.
The Internet contains a vast variety of resources for students or parents to learn more. Although students can use encyclopaedias to help them research, the Internet is more reliable because it has more resources than the encyclopedia. According to the University of Florida, students can “relate their interests on a personal level”, which encourages the independence students need when they use the Internet to research; and therefore, students are motivated to do better in schools. A friend of mine did not try very hard in his homeworks and tests until his family had an Internet connection; and after that, he got better marks and liked school more. Students can also use the Internet if their textbook(s) do not make sense or if they need more information. The Internet helps not only students, but also parents. Parents who have little English skills or want to learn more about a specific subject can depend upon the Internet to help them. Three years ago, when my family immigrated to Canada, my parents had literally no English skills. The Internet helped them a lot in occasions. In brief, the Internet is a powerful tool to help improve education for both students and parents.
        Some may argue that the Internet has bad information on it; therefore, it would affect young children. However, Internet security programs block websites that should not be trusted or contains bad information that kids should not see. In addition, websites that are severely inappropriate may be blocked by the government or organizations which report on bad sites. I do not think young children use the Internet much because they are busy playing with their toys or sleeping. Based on my personal experience, I did not use the Internet or considered it as a useful tool until grade 1, where I finally realized how powerful it is. Usually, when you click on the link of an untrusted website, a warning sign pops up and says something like “ This website is not for children”. Many of my teachers said that do not click on untrustworthy websites, especially websites that say it is not for children. In all, many young children do not have reasons for going on the Internet; and older children should know whether or not to trust a website.
There are many good reasons to consider when referring to the Internet. The Internet solves the communication problems we have every day. Furthermore, the Internet improved education by providing great resources for students, teachers, and parents.Parents can not only learn from the Internet, but are also more involved in their child’s education. However, the Internet also has its disadvantages. Some websites on the Internet contain inappropriate content that should not be viewed by kids. Fortunately, we have Internet security programs that will block websites that are not for kids. Furthermore, some kids have no reason to go on the Internet. Instead, they will be playing with their toys or sleeping. The Internet is a powerful tool to improve education and communication.