The Internet is More Frustrating Than Useful
In 2009, when I was still in Vietnam, it was very hard to do some of my projects in school because our house had no Internet connection. First, utilising the resources on the Internet helps me to get better marks.  Likewise,  the Internet connects the world; it enables me and other people to contact anyone with the Internet. Despite the threat of Internet Addiction Disorder, it can be very useful because it provides resources for students and makes communication between people easier.
                The Internet has made communication easier around the world. In the past, sharing a file publicly was slower. However,  the wide use of the Internet makes it faster to share files. The Internet helps people find relationships easier. Many of my relatives have found good relationships on the Internet. Although many cyberbullies are on these websites, many people are aware of them and studies clearly show the truth. According to researchers, cyberbullying has actually decreased since 2011. Communication/email servers offer free video or voice calls on the Internet; as a result, office workers can communicate and send files to each other with ease. This also benefits family members because they can contact each other when they are really far away. My father calls his mother, who lives on the other side of the world, with an email server very oftenly. The Internet has made easier for not only communication, but also education.
The Internet contains a vast variety of resources for students or parents to learn more. A friend of mine did not try very hard in his homeworks and tests until his family had an Internet connection; and after that, he got better marks and liked school more. Students can also use the Internet if their textbook(s) do not make sense or if they need more information. The Internet helps not only students, but also parents. Parents who have little English skills or want to learn more about a specific subject can depend upon the Internet to help them. Three years ago, when my family immigrated to Canada, my parents had literally no English skills. The Internet helped them a lot in occasions. 
There are many good reasons to consider when referring to the Internet. The Internet solves the communication problems we have every day. Furthermore, the Internet improved education by providing great resources for students, teachers, and parents.Parents can not only learn from the Internet, but are also more involved in their child’s education. However, the Internet also has its disadvantages. Some websites on the Internet contain inappropriate content that should not be viewed by kids. Fortunately, we have Internet security programs that will block websites that are not for kids. Furthermore, some kids have no reason to go on the Internet. Instead, they will be playing with their toys or sleeping. The Internet is a powerful tool to improve education and communication.