“Gangsta’s Paradise” by Coolio is an account of both the glamour and allure of the life of a “gangsta” living in paradise. The first stanza alone contains two references to the bible in the first and last line. Associating the narrator’s criminal lifestyle with something as wholesome as God is the narrator’s attempt to justify that he is still a moral person. While the narrator admits “there’s nothin’ left” of his life and even his mom has lost hope for him, he tries to justify one last time of his morality, and claims to have “never crossed a man that didn’t deserve it.” Immediately after, the narrator warns the reader to better watch “how [they] talkin and where [they] walkin’, or [they]... might be lined in chalk.” These contradictory statements lined one after another help portray the character as another gangster stereotype: impulsive, manipulative (of others` emotions), and scary. 


Ending the first stanza with “Fool, I`m the kinda… prayers in the street light” is interesting as it is our last impression of Coolio’s character before the hook. While the gangster stereotype is definitely present in Coolio’s portrayal of his character, ending this stanza with a positive reflection of the narrator leaves us with a more sympathetic impression of the narrator, which will be important later in the song. 


Coolio also uses a variety of poetic and sound devices to help the song flow and support his ideas. Alliteration in “look at my life” (2), “been blastin” (3), and assonance in “blastin’ and laughin’” (3) help speed the pace and sound nicer. A repetition of “m” sounds in “even my momma thinks that my mind is gone” (4) associates “momma” to “mind” and how both are gone. This line is my favourite because although the narrator shows no remorse nor regret in “blastin’ and laughin’ so long,” we nonetheless feel sympathetic that his mother has left him. On one hand, the narrator realizes his lifestyle is unsustainable and has lead to dire consequences. On the other hand, the narrator refuses to deviate from his “blastin’ and laughin’” lifestyle, still using the same slang language as before. We found ourselves sympathetic for the narrator despite his lack of reflection.