“Gangsta’s Paradise” is Coolio’s attempt to explain the allure of the life of a gangster to a presumably upper class, white woman. The first three stanzas feature the narrator switching from introspective to aggressive multiple times. With allusions to the bible and to his “ma’ma,” the narrator sets off the song with inner reflection and introspection—the last thing we would expect from a song called “Gangsta’s Paradise.” Even Coolio’s choice to spell “ma’ma” instead of “mother” or “ma” represents the narrator exposing vulnerability— “ma’ma” is commonly used by children calling their mothers, rather than gangsters whose reputation depends on being “tough,” which saying “ma’ma” is certainly not. The overly stressed syllables in line 4, “blastin’... laughin…” also serve to slow the pace down and helps with the introspective mood Coolio tries to set.
The narrator switches to aggression immediately in the second stanza, and threatens to have “you and your homies… lined in chalk.” Perhaps, this rapid change of attitude represents the narrator’s impulsive personality, characteristic of a gangster. He defends his character by saying he has never been “treated like a punk,” and has never “crossed a man that didn’t deserve it.” Coolio’s word choice also matches those of a gangster, using “crossed,” “punk,” and “homies.” This stanza shows the other side of the introspective gangster that had brought out sympathy from us earlier.
Coolio also uses a variety of poetic and sound devices to help the song flow and support his ideas. Alliteration in “look at my life”, and assonance in “blastin’ and laughin’”  help speed the pace and sound nicer. Line 4 is my favourite because it uses stress to significantly slow the pace and simulate the narrator’s introspection. 
The music video also has noticeable double meanings. Contrast is used both as a cinematic effect and to emphasize the message of the poem. Black, which is the background of the “paradise” setting, is also the skin colour of the only gangster featured in the video. A white woman, presumably much better dressed and superior (“You want… all about?”) and the other settings are also brightly lit are white. These settings symbolize the “normal world,” and the black setting symbolizes Coolio’s “Gangsta’s Paradise.” Written sometime in the 1990s, this contrast in colour could represent the rampant racism. The title itself is also an oxymoron and alternates stressed and unstressed syllables.
Ugh, Math
Roses are red, violets are blue.
One plus three is four; root it, becomes two.
But forget the little devil,
The plus-minus symbol,
And teacher comes chasing after you!