Should Homework be Mandatory?


In 2009, when I was in grade 1, I received homework from not only my father, but also my first-grade teacher. My father taught and gave me math homework so I could focus on other subjects later in my learning life. Vietnam, my native country, had a very different curriculum; first grade math is not very easy; and in comparison with Canada’s curriculum, first grade math in Vietnam is equal to third-grade math in Canada. As a result, I got very frustrated and was on the verge of quitting most of time. However, had it not been for my perseverance, and the amazing explanations my dad gave, I would have gone mad and be super frustrated. However, I found out that I was able to focus on other subjects and not worry about math since I finished it before. Therefore, I find that homework helps me not only to review, but also to build my responsibility.
Nowadays, many people judge other people by their responsibility; therefore, we can help students to build responsibility they will need later in their life by giving homework to them. Doing homework and putting it in the right spot every night builds a child’s responsibility. When we grow up, we have to remember where things are and put them in the correct spot; therefore, if we teach students to put their homework in the right spot, students will have that skill when they grow up. In addition, doing homework teaches students to put all of their homework in their backpacks. This skill is also essential in everyday life. We must bring many things to work, and it is very important to not forget them. Therefore, to decrease the risks of forgetting, we must develop the habit and skill early in our lives. Furthermore, doing homework teaches time management. When teachers give students due dates to turn in homeworks, students must manage their timetables carefully; otherwise, they will not hand it in on time.
On the other side, statistics proved that many high schoolers drop out because of the amount of homework their teachers give. These high schoolers who drop out do not get good careers; instead, they have to do dirty jobs such as bathroom cleaning or they have to be homeless people. I certainly do not want more homeless people in the planet; therefore, we have to do something about it. Getting rid of homework is certainly not good because all of the students will get bad jobs instead of just a few. In addition, teachers sometimes give homework that is pointless; or in other words, off-topic. As a result, we must give less, but better quality homework instead of a lot of homework, but not quality. Nowadays, many researchers have challenged traditional beliefs about homework. Those researchers say homework given to students are too weak; and therefore, do not increase student achievements. We should improve the quality of the homework and decrease the quantity; as a result, students will have less stress and more family time, and less students will drop out of school.