A calculator helps us solve math problems, a light bulb helps us see at night, but a car is different. Yes, it helps us travel to distant places; however, unlike the rest, large and small cities such as Times Square in New York and Fez el Bali in Morocco are beginning to ban the use of cars. As an alternative way of travel, citizens there use bicycles or walk. As a result, many citizens in those areas are clearly healthier than citizens in areas that allow the use of cars. In addition, the city would, unsurprisingly, have cleaner air. Although prohibiting the use of cars means unhappy citizens, they will get used to it as long as other people in their neighborhood are fine with the law. Cities will have healthier citizens and less pollution if they ban cars and encourage the use of bicycles.
Using a bicycle to travel around is always the appropriate choice. However, even though many people can use bicycles to travel around most of the time, they are tempted to use their luxurious cars because they are too lazy. Fortunately, that habit can be broken when the city prohibits or discourages the use of cars. In addition, sick people are people who are very weak and do not exercise frequently. Therefore, in a city with so many people biking, people are less likely to get sick. As a result of that, more care can be given to people who are seriously ill; and therefore, the sick people in the hospital will recuperate faster. In addition, other people will be motivated when you bike, so you are setting an example. Whether at work or at school, cycling in the morning helps improve productivity and helps improve comprehension of facts. Furthermore, cyclists do not have to worry about traffic jams, they can just feel the joy of passing through angry and frustrated car drivers in traffic jams. In brief, cycling has many benefits, which include better health, more productive, the ability to absorb facts easily, and the joy of passing through angry car drivers in traffic jams.
Discouraging the use of cars can be a daunting task for city councils or even the government, but in the future, the benefits outweigh the costs. First of all, less cars on the road means many things for us, but the main one is cleaner air. Nowadays, global warming is one of the scariest threat for developed and urban areas such as New York. However, the city council can solve that problem by prohibiting cars. In my opinion, cars are one of the main contributors to climate change and global warming. Therefore, if we ban cars from the roads, it will slow down climate change and give us more time to react to global warming. Not only do banning cars slow down climate change, but also significantly decrease car accident rates. As a result, animals that live underground will not have to endure the poisonous gas/diesel when a car crashes. Cars must burn fossil fuels such as diesel and gasoline in order to operate. However, those fossil fuels can be used for other purposes if cars are banned. For example, those fossil fuels