A calculator solves math problems, a light bulb helps us see at night, but a car is different. Yes, it helps us travel to distant places; however, unlike the rest, large and small cities such as Times Square in New York and Fez el Bali in Morocco are beginning to ban the use of cars. As an alternative way of travel, citizens there use bicycles or walk. As a result, many citizens in those areas are clearly healthier than citizens in areas that allow the use of cars. In addition, the city would, unsurprisingly, have cleaner air. Although prohibiting the use of cars means unhappy citizens, they will get used to it as long as other people in their neighborhood are fine with the law.  For instance, I quickly got used to staying in cars for a long time every day after about a month. Cities will have healthier citizens and less pollution if they ban cars and encourage the use of bicycles.
Using a bicycle to travel around is always the appropriate choice. However, even though many people can use bicycles to travel around most of the time, they are tempted to use their luxurious cars because they are too lazy. I plead my dad to drop me off near my school, not his parking lot, which is about 1 kilometers from my school . However, my dad said no, so I bike from that parking lot to my school. As a result, I get better health and fresh air. Fortunately, that habit can be broken when the city prohibits or discourages the use of cars. In addition, sick people are very weak and do not exercise frequently. My friend does not like to exercise much; therefore, he get sick very often. However, when I convinced him to exercise more, he did not get sick as oftenly. Therefore, in a city with so many people biking, people are less likely to get sick. Because of that, more care can be given to people who are seriously ill; and therefore, the sick people in the hospital will recuperate faster. In addition, other people will be motivated when you bike, so you are setting an example. Whether at work or at school, cycling in the morning helps improve productivity and helps improve comprehension of facts. I find it very hard to think well very early in the morning, but once I exercised in the morning, I could think faster and better. Furthermore, cyclists do not have to worry about traffic jams; they can just feel the joy of passing through angry and frustrated car drivers in traffic jams. In brief, cycling has many benefits, which include better health, more productive, the ability to absorb facts easily, and the joy of passing through angry car drivers. I have seen many cyclists pass my car as I wait for the traffic jam, and I must admit it was hard not to get angry or frustrated.
Discouraging the use of cars can be a daunting task for city councils or even the government, but in the future, the benefits outweigh the costs. First of all, less cars on the road means many things for us, but the main one is cleaner air. Nowadays, global warming is one of the scariest threats for developed and urban areas such as New York. However, the city council can solve that problem by prohibiting cars. In my opinion, cars are one of the main contributors to climate change and global warming. Therefore, if we ban cars from the roads, it will slow down climate change and give us more time to react to global warming. The Times Square in New York has an extremely high reputation of a tourist place, but it also has a reputation as the cleanest city in US!. Not only do banning cars slow down climate change, but also significantly decrease car accident rates. My teacher once said that fuel leaks when a car crashes, and animals that live belowground will die because of the fuel. Therefore, less animal will die if there are less car accidents.  Cars must burn fossil fuels such as diesel and gasoline in order to operate. However, those fossil fuels can be used for other purposes if cars are banned. For example, those fossil fuels could be used for emergency cases like energy shortage or storms.
Some may argue that people will be unhappy when they cannot use their cars. Well, that may be true, but people tend to get used to their environment very fast. For example, I had to travel a very long trip for one side of a city to another in order to go to school. Fortunately, I got used to it very quickly. As you can see, people, including me, get used to environments and special circumstances very quickly. Anyways, people will only be unhappy for a very short time, and after that? They are enjoying biking as much as doing their favorite thing! However, people will have less time to do their work when they bike; therefore, kids or parents do not have that much time to do their work. As a result, students may rush to finish their homework, and that would result in bad marks. However, as I have stated earlier, people get used to circumstances very quickly. Therefore, when many students report that they cannot finish their homework because they do not have time, it may convince the teacher to allow more time. My teacher put a due date on a poem assignment; however, when so many students asked him to postpone it, he became kind of stressed, so he extended the due date. Although many people will be unhappy when they cannot use their cars, people get used to their environments very quickly, and that means soon enough, people will be used to it. 
As you can see, there are many benefits of reducing the use of cars and promoting the use of bicycles. Firstly, the benefits of cycling are great. Cyclists are the one who are healthier, more productive, and fastest (in traffic jams). Many people enjoy cycling because of the many benefits, and there will be more in the future. We are slowing down climate change by discouraging the use of cars. In my opinion, cars are one of the main contributors to global warming and climate change; therefore, if we reduce the use of cars, we are also slowing down climate change and global warming. Although cyclists have less time at home, people can get used to their environments easily, so cyclists will eventually find a way to solve that problem. In conclusion, governments should discourage the use of cars and promote the use of bicycles.