There are many different types of foods in the world. There are also many different types of unhealthy and healthy foods in the world. Now, you can probably list thousands of unhealthy foods that you eat everyday. I think that sugar is one of the most unhealthy, maybe even toxic, foods in the world as if it was mercury. I can list foods that are unhealthier than sugar, but since we eat sugar a lot, I consider it very unhealthy. There are some types of sugar that are not unhealthy at all, such as sugar in plants and fruits. That type of sugar is healthy for you. However, some types of sugar are very unhealthy for you. Today, I am going to talk about is sugar really toxic, or is it just unhealthy? In my opinion, I would rather call sugar toxic than just unhealthy.


Many scientists prove that the sweet substance that you take in everyday, which is sugar, may cause deadly diseases such as cancer to hit you. One of the diseases that people who eat sugar a lot are likely to get is diabetes. There are two types of diabetes, but the more dangerous, or should I say deadly? is type two diabetes. If you get type two diabetes, scientists say that you might eventually get type one diabetes. It is not easy to remind people how much of the sweet substance they are taking in everyday. Health Canada’s recommended food labels does not show Canadians that they should put a stop to eating sugar. While I was eating a lot of candy when I was young, I was not realizing that sugar is very unhealthy for me especially at this age. The Government of Canada states that all food labels should have all the ingredients, but some are false. The labels on some foods are false because their manufacturer did not want customers to think that the food is unhealthy. In addition, if there were everything on the food labels, then the manufacturer would put it in really small font or change it into a scientific name, so people do not recognize it as unhealthy. Health Canada have told food manufacturers to place daily limits on how much sugar a person should eat everyday. A manufacturer said that there is no need to put limits. I had been eating a lot of sugar when I was young before I realized how unhealthy it is. I hope other people would be recognizing how unhealthy sugar is to them. I wish that there were no sugary substances in the Earth.