First Day at UHill
        
Moving to this new school was a very daunting experience for me. None of my classmates played with me because I was the “new kid.” Instead, they played with their friends, which made me wander around and around, doing nothing. Anyways, as my dad neared UBC, my view suddenly transformed from the deserted forest to a city of highrises. 
Before I had seen this school, I thought it would be more fancy than the school that is right before my eyes. I dreamed of it being tall and strong, like a modern high rise in downtown. However, these wonderful thoughts vanished as I walked towards the main entrance of the school. It looked like a normal school, just renovated yearly. In addition, the school only had one floor, and before I knew it, I had seen every part of the school already. I was disappointed. However, the design was modern and there were lots of glass, which proved that the budget for this school was large and they did not have to substitute the beautiful materials for something cheaper such as concrete. The only thoughts that crossed my mind during my waiting time for asking the office where I should go next was the fact that the school was very small. It may be because of the fact that not many students were living in UBC, but that was false as soon as the presenter said that this school was very overcrowded and we were going to move to a bigger school next year. Although the school was super small, its beautiful and elegant design compensated for it, because of all the glass and the wood and the lack of concrete or other cheap materials.
        Although I was a very new student, the teachers and students tried their best to welcome and accommodate me. However, I felt more welcome in my old school because of my friends. Therefore, during recess, I just wandered around, doing nothing while my classmates played with their friends. The teacher was also very nice, much less stricter than the teacher at my old school. I started worrying if this would affect my behaviour and mark, unfortunately, it did. Anyways, as time approached lunch break, I decided that I had to do something about it, so I went to get a random book and sat down to read during the lunch break. My boredom abated because of the book, but I was still jealous of my classmates playing with their friends while I did not have anyone to play with. 
        The school is pretty new and beautiful, although it was way smaller than I thought it would be. It was also very far away from central UBC, because it was on the northern end and there were no other buildings north of it. Although my classmates did not play with me during recess or lunch break, I could already tell that they were way nicer than my friends at the old school, thus proving my thoughts about this school being better than my old school. I was doubtful that going into the new school would change my education, but it was worth a try because the school’s ranking was better than my old school’s ranking. Then, my dad picked me up and we started our long drive back to East Vancouver.