Lazy students think that most teachers are mean, but I think very differently. Sometimes, some of the meanest teachers in your school can actually be nice to you if you do well in school. Some of the best teachers I’ve had are mostly cool. 
So far, the best teacher I’ve had is Sean. I’m still in his class, if you would like to know, and he gives his students so much freedom. My last teacher was extremely picky. She cared so much about safety and things, but that’s okay because safety is always the first priority when you do an activity. My teacher right now, Sean, is exactly the opposite. He is very funny, and he is way too awesome. We do stuff like presentations and photo projects. Another reason why I like Sean is because his classroom is like the classroom of the future. It has iPads and Apple TV! He also teaches in a completely different way. Instead of teaching students how to do a problem, he lets them read the textbook and figure it out by themselves, but if they do not get it, still, then he will teach them privately. One cool thing that I really liked that we did this year was the science project. The point is to create the best science experiment and explain how to do it and how it works. But that’s not it, the project must fit inside a certain plastic bag that our teacher gave us, and it must be repeatable. Repeatable means, in this case, that you can do it over and over again, for many times, without needing anything from outside. One example is that if someone’s project needs a battery, they cannot do that because what if the battery runs out? Another example is a food. It is not repeatable because if it is left for a long time, the food will be rotten, and the smell is really bad. Anyways, for that science project, I did a beer cap spinner thing, it is very cool and dangerous, but how to make the beer cap spin is a hard thing.
Teachers are like your guide to success when you go out to the world. You learn from them without even knowing it. I do not care if teachers are nice or mean, but they are the most important thing in your life, after your parents, of course.