Darkwing is a very good book by Kenneth Oppel. He has written many books and has won many awards, including the Mr. Christie’s book award and the Red Maple Book Award. He is among one of the greatest writers that I know of until now, and I hope he will be in the later years. Anyways, Darkwing is the last book of the Silverwing Saga series, and a sequel to Firewing. Kenneth Oppel has also written the Airborne series, which I like very much. In addition, he has composed and published many books, which includes the live-forever machine, and dead water zone. Today, I will be writing, or typing, a summary about darkwing. 


Dusk, a newborn chiropter, climbed a tree without ease. As a result of his missing claw and his desire to flap his wings and fly, always had trouble climbing trees before he grew up later on. However, before he even made his first glide, he had only climbed the tree up and down. Finally, his father, Icaron, climbed to the top of the tree with Dusk and waited for him to finish his climb up the tree. After a moment, Dusk finally came up, relieved. However, that all changed when his father pushed him off the branch he roosted on unexpectedly. While he was trying to flap his wings and hope he would go up, his father was saying that chiropters do not fly, they glide towards the earth. Fighting the urge to flap his wings, Dusk held it stiff, and glided towards the ground very fast as a result of his big chest. Eventually, he made a clumsy landing, before his father got down to teach him how to land the correct way. From then on, he secretly went on to the Upper Spar, a border that chiropters were not allowed to cross, to observe and watch how the birds take off and land. After many visits to the upper spar, his father and some other adults went to the coast in an attempt to search for saurian eggs. Sylph, Dusk’s sister, begged him to go with her secretly to follow their dad and other chiropters. When they finally went to the coast, Dusk thought he saw a saurian egg, and went down on to the ground to see and destroy it. Filled with disappointment, he realized that they were not eggs, just a pile of leaves! He stared at it once more, this time longer, to make sure that it was not an egg. 


The story continues after that, but if you want to read more, then you should buy the book. I wish that Kenneth Oppel could write more books in the Silverwing Saga.