Christopher Marlowe, in his play Doctor Faustus, provides a case for both the newly emerging Classical Humanist worldview against the old and traditional Christian Theist worldview through the adventures of a doctor who turns to magic and the evil arts.


Dr. Faustus, in his desire to explore all that the human experience has to offer, forgoes the dominant worldview of his times (Christian Theism) and looks toward the devil. He believes little in damnation, repenting, or perhaps, even the existence of God in daily life, as is evident by his refusal to repent to God despite all the chances the “Good Angel” has given him. While Dr. Faustus nonetheless doubts his decision to turn towards “that famous art,/wherein all nature’s treasury is contained” (1.74-75), he decides to pursue his desires with the view of a classical humanist pursuing knowledge, in that “through our innate and autonomous human reason… we can know the universe.” (Sire, 75). Once he passes the God-imposed limits of human nature, Dr. Faustus grows increasingly disappointed with his newfound powers that he had dreamed so highly of. His dreams of grand adventures with his power now turn into petty performances for people who couldn’t care less. However, this spirit of discovering the human experience, guided by emotions and desires, is the spirit of classical humanism, and Marlowe portrays the other side of the human spirit, rather than the silent, devout, and pious lifestyle endorsed at that time. 


Marlowe also features the other, more prominent worldview at his time: Christian Theism. While the bulk of the play follows the adventures of a Classical Humanist, the overall “message” remains a staunchly Christian one. Near the end of the play, Dr. Faustus exposes his barest human nature to the public and begs God for forgiveness, even after it has been too late. Within the medium of the play, and the powerful visual effect it would have had on the audience, Marlowe criticizes Dr. Faustus’s human desire and abandonment of God for the evil. The omnipresent existence of God is represented by the “Good Angel,” who appears multiple times to try to steer Dr. Faustus back to the pious path. This omnipresence of God gives an impression in line with the Christian Theist worldview, of the forgiving and infinite God. 


Marlowe portrays an interesting gradient of beliefs and worldviews in Doctor Faustus, and especially important is this play considering the historical context in which it appears in.
































Works Cited


Sire, James W. The Universe Next Door: A Basic Worldview Catalog. 5th ed. 2009. Print.