There are many types of services in the world, but I am just going to talk about car services today. There are car rentals, driver rentals, or just insurances if there are incidents. What I think is the most beneficial of all is car rentals. That is because customers have to pay so much for just one hour, and you can charge them extra one more hour if they turn it in late! However, there are disadvantages to car rentals, and the main one is that I need a lot of money if I will start a car rental business. What I mean by needing a lot of money is that you must have at least five cars to start a decent business. Also, you might want to consider your place too. If it is a great tourist place, then that city is good for you. But if it is not, then I do not think that you should do it. 


A rival car service announced publicly that Uber, a car rental service, has been using questionable techniques and strategies to get more customers to order and rent their cars. Gett, which enables customers to order or rent cars with an app proclaimed that Uber and its employees in New York have ordered and canceled over a hundred of its cars during three days last week! They did that because the Umber employees wanted the Gett driver's cell phone numbers from the order. On Tuesday last week, an Uber employees texted drivers using Gett in order to get them to leave Gett and use Uber. The victims, or the ones who were texted, sent CNNMoney screenshots of their phone. In those screenshots were the texts, which Uber would offer them amounts of money if they come to their service. Realizing this, Uber apologized and said that the tactics that the New York team used was too strong. Uber said that their local teams can be very determined and hopeful while they are trying to recruit more customers and how Uber have disadvantages over the other car rental services such as Gett. They, Uber, also announced that the New York City team  was a bit too determined and Uber will make sure they lessen their sales tactics. 


I hope that businesses will be getting less competitive from now on is that I think it creates a better environment, and there will be less sad news.