Nowadays, laptops, hard drives, or USB sticks carry very important information. They have advantages and disadvantages. Their main and most useful advantage is that if you are wearing a backpack, you would rather use a USB stick than papers, since it is very heavy. Another advantage is that USB sticks are like cloud storage, where you can access your storage from any computer. However, cloud storages need Internet, which you do not have all the time. However, USB sticks do not need Internet to operate, so you can use it anywhere, and anytime whenever you have a computer. One disadvantage and one that has already happened is that if one USB, hard drive, laptop gets stolen, you lose all the information that is stored on it, which just happened to an Alberta hospital about four months ago. 


        A laptop with tons and tons and tons of data about health information of about sixty thousand Albertans were stolen about four months ago, announced health minister Fred Horne on Wednesday. The laptop contained information about health customers of the hospital such as provincial health cards, age, date of birth, billing codes and diagnostics codes. Investigators found out that the important laptop that houses all of the information had been stolen on the twenty sixth day of September last year, 2013. The health minister of Alberta was informed of the theft of the laptop on Tuesday by receiving an email from the vice president of Medicentres Family Health Care Clinics. Horne provoked that he is very upset that reporters or health officials had not told him or his department before Wednesday last week. The health minister also announced that he is outraged that the case of the theft of the laptop is unacceptable in Alberta unregarding any circumstances possible. As an apology to its sixty thousand health customers, it added new security and tested the old ones and apologizes to all of its customers about identity theft case in September twenty sixth. Although most of the information is located on that laptop, there is not information that is detailed enough to commit an identity case. 


        I feel really sorry for the Medicentres Family Health Care Clinics because they made so many customers disappointed and feel that they are untrustworthy that I think as if they might lose all of their customers. In my opinion, I do not think the theft did it to just steal a laptop, but did it to access the information of all those customers.