Kincaid, in her essay “On Seeing England For the First Time,” writes from the perspective of a young schoolgirl whose identity and culture is taken away as her mother country is colonized by England, something she describes as “a special jewel alright, and only special people got to wear it.”(11-12) As with any young person who experiences a sudden and confusing change of identity, Kincaid merely recounts the consequences of English dominance on her country. In the last few paragraphs, however, her naive description wears off to show Kincaid’s underlying contempt for England after she grew up.


The repetition of the words “England” throughout the whole essay serves not only to give the reader the importance of England in Kincaid’s life, but also gives a sense of the oppression Kincaid felt. The essay starts off with the schoolteacher’s glamorous description of England, something akin to “Jerusalem, the place you will go to when you die but only if you have been good.”(22-23) Then, Kincaid follows with more descriptions of England and the English people, all with the tone of awe and admiration. Her little interjections between these grand claims of English people, how unfit it was for her father to “wear the wrong hat for a hot climate most of his long life,”(60-61) and how “no one . . . liked eating so much food so early in the day”(72-73) seem even to be sandwiched between more claims of England. The oppressed tone this repetition of the idea of England suggests of her later repugnance to England once she had grown up, even commenting that England was in “everything else that surrounded us, the exceptions being the sea, the sky, and the air we breathed.” (75-77)


Kincaid’s vivid imagery used to describe the scenes adds to the portrayed grandiosity of England. With oddly specific detail, she describes in the a schoolgirl would her bewilderment of breakfast and English traditions, that she “knew then that [she] enjoyed the food more when [she] ate it with [her] bare hands,”(96-96) or perhaps the “socks and cotton undergarments and the satin ribbons [she] wore tied at the end of two plaits of [her] hair.”(48-50) This imagery shows the extent to which the idea of England and its traditions pierced her daily life, almost as if her culture had been conquered by England, and as she recounts later on, “I had long ago been conquered. I did not know then that this statement was part of a process that would result in my erasure, not my physical erasure, but my erasure all the same.”(107-110) All of this imagery, from her experience as a schoolgirl and the English items of her life, essentially culminate to make the reader feel, like Kincaid, “in awe and small whenever [hearing] the word ‘England.’” (111-112)


The position from which Kincaid narrates from is clear from the beginning with her almost universal usage of the past perfect tense, which leads to a reminiscent tone. In addition, the frequency of the word “then” scattered throughout reinforces the notion that Kincaid is simply recounting memories of her childhood, perhaps with a tinge of disappointment on the dominance of England. Her tone resembles helpless hatred of the England’s complete disregard for her culture, of injustices too far in the past to have done anything about. 


These three strategies that Kincaid uses—repetition of the word “England,” imagery, as well as tense and diction—all add to the sense of the awe and admiration for England that Kincaid also feels. They also show the author’s hatred towards England, but also her helplessness in that she can do nothing about it. Kincaid’s attitude is shaped by these childhood memories of English oppression and almost indoctrination, as the awe and admiration her teachers imposed on her as a young schoolgirl changed to hatred and revulsion. 




Works Cited


        Kincaid, Jamaica. “On Seeing England For the First Time.” 1992. Web.