1. 4 Layers of Interpretation 
1. Layer 1: Work 
the most basic layer, dealing with solely the text, namely the form and the content.  
Form includes genre/medium (poem/novel/play?), whether it is italicized (The Wind Our Enemy by Anne Marriott), structure of the poem (14 lines = sonnet). Form is also very dependent on literary period, and further questions for analysis would be what forms were popular then, the role of each form.  
Content includes literary devices and use of language.  
3 steps for literary devices are: definition, identification, and explanation (how they help the text).  
Explanation is the most important in writing essays, HOW it helps the message/express tone.  
1. Layer 2: Historical Context 
Literature is embedded in history, and the two link back to each other. 
Consider factors such as religion, wars, foreign affairs, entertainment, social structure, education… 
First, why is the work in this literary period? Proof of the particular literary period?  
Consider also the dominant worldview of the literary period, and its influences on the text 
1. Layer 3: Modern Interpretations 
Philosophical, “I feel,” how the themes connect to modern problems.  
A good work has themes that transcend time.  
1. Layer 4: Biblical Interpretation 
Only for works with prominent Christianity references/Anglo Saxon era. 
1. Anglo-Saxon Period 
Very short period, considering that most of it was passed orally and lost before education and written language came to England.  
1. Roman Period 
In 56 B.C. Caesar first showed interest in expanding the Roman Isles by exploring the British Isles, but his attempts to colonize there failed as he could not overcome the barbaric peoples with his meager army. In 43 A. D., he became serious about colonization and brought in three Roman legions to Britain. The efforts were first successful in the Southwest, and they began to work with the Romans in establishing a government, trading posts, roads, as well as introduced Latin to the tribes. These Southern tribes then became more “Romanized” and less barbaric, however, the Northern tribes had not changed. In fact, the threat of attack from the Picts (who lived in present day Scotland) was so great that two legions were stationed along the border to prevent attacks. Hadrian’s Wall was a 72-mile wall with fortresses that stationed soldiers, built one mile apart. 
 
As the Roman empire began to fall, troops stationed along this wall were gradually removed, which posed the Southern tribes which had become civilized the threat of attack from the still barbaric Northern tribes.  
 
Rome left behind a common language: Latin. During that time, many of the words entered the English language, particularly ones that deal with law or the church. The tribes later adopted many words from other languages to fit their needs, resulting in English’s complicatedness.  
1. Germanic Tribes Arrive 
Conquests of Attila the Hun in the fifth century forced European tribes in his path to choose between two options: hold back his attacks, or move north-west and displace another tribe. However, on Denmark and northern regions of Germany, there were three tribes that had no where to go: the Angles, Saxons, and Jutes. They decided to cross the English channel and made the pact with the Romanized people of South England that they would hold back attacks from the Northern tribes.  
1. Anglo Saxon Culture 
Although the three tribes (Angles, Saxons, and Jutes) were similar in background, they had formed separate kingdoms and warred against each other. Social structure of this society was two class system with earls, the ruling class, and churls, the servant class. Churls were often from members of opposing tribes that had been captured.  
 
As they had lived in harsh conditions, tribes lived in a communal fashion, and every life was greatly valued as the tribes needed everyone in order to survive. Tribes shared all soils of war and members looked after each other, but turning against a person, especially of one’s own family, was the greatest sin and was punished by exile, and even death. Family was more important than everything to the Anglo-Saxons (why?)1, and a lone person was viewed as highly suspicious because of their disloyal character. Their social organization was similar to three concentric circles: family being the innermost, next would be extended family and clan, and outermost would be the tribe.  
 
Their culture was very interesting in that it had two facets: one of barbaric warriors who drank, believed in superstitions, and glorified revenge as a moral responsibility, and a second facet of storytelling. As most Anglo-Saxons were illiterate, stories were passed on orally, and the barbaric nature of Anglo-Saxon culture, as well as their fondness for words and heroes, complemented each other and saturated the storytelling.  
 
For example, the sea is represented both as a monster that could end life at any moment, but also a means of travel and food—essentially a love-hate relationship. Many more love-hate relationships appear in Anglo-Saxon literature, another such example being the man-nature, worshiping nature for its violence and beauty, but also wary of its dangers, especially in a region like the British Isles.  
In conclusion, the Anglo-Saxons had 2 classes, 1 culture, and 1 literature. 2 classes were earls and chearls, common culture was Germanic, and only one type of literature due to widespread illiteracy—resulting in most literature being oral traditions that appealed to the majority of people.  
 
The common theme throughout Anglo-Saxon culture is that they were survivors. They survived the day and tried to survive the next day. As thus, most of their actions were not based on advanced planning, but rather on the belief that this was their last day.  
 
1. Uniting the Island 
Recall that the Angles and the Saxon groups were warring and divided. However, with the arrival of 2 invasions—one from Vikings and one from Normans—the two tribes united and there borne Alfred the Great, who supported the writing down of literature. The second invasion from the Normans dominated the Anglo-Saxons, which lead to the end of the Anglo-Saxon period and the beginning of the medieval period. 
1. Christianity comes to England 
The Northern part of the island had already been evangelized before the Angles, Saxons, and the Jutes traversed the channel, but Christianity had not spread down to the South yet. Contact with Britain was done as missionaries of the Roman Catholic Church travelled to Britain, and as Anglo-Saxons travelled to Rome for business. Pope Gregory of the Church was first struck by the heathen nation, primarily of its following of superstitions, the practice of polytheism, and slavery of one’s own people. While the Anglo-Saxons had only enslaved peoples of other tribes, the Pope held no distinction and regarded all those who lived in Britain as the same people. 
 
1. St. Augustine of Canterbury 
In 597 A.D., the pope sent Augustine of Canterbury to convert what the pope deamed as heathen people to Christianity. Augustine arrived and he had successfully converted a king in Canterbury to Christianity. Within two generations, the entire island was Christian (Catholic).  
 
St. Augustine then built a monastery at Canterbury and soon set off a chain reaction that changed Anglo-Saxon literature greatly. They brought in Latin as a written language and transcribed oral stories such as Beowulf. Due to the slow nature of recording and translating (Old English to Latin), few Anglo Saxon literature was preserved.  
1. Controversial Elements 
1. Canterbury was a pagan sacrifice ground that had nothing to do with the Church, and the construction of the monastery in Canterbury caused confusion. They decided to capitalize upon this, and the Anglo-Saxons did not understand that the church and the pagan sacrifice ground were two different identities.  
1. The Church did not deny the existence of pagan entities such as Wyrd, a deity of fate (the prime reality of the Anglo Saxons). Instead, they reasoned with the Anglo Saxons that God Jehovah was stronger than Wyrd, which had confused them even more.  
1. The monastery also held holidays around the holidays for pagan gods, so the people thought that they were an addition to the religion, rather than an entirely different religion. The converts, as a result, associated elements of paganism to Christianity which hid the true intentions of the missionaries. 
1. During the recording of Anglo-Saxon literature, missionaries inserted biblical interpretations and stories into spots where they found applicable, and is one of the reasons why we don’t have a pure sample of Anglo Saxon literature. 
1. Beowulf 
Beowulf is an epic that was imported from Denmark with Germanic origins. Originally, the story had been passed around as an oral epic and was not recorded. When the monks arrived in St.Augustine in Canterbury, they had transcribed the epic onto Latin. Since the Anglo Saxons were illiterate, however, they had no control over the accuracy, and the monks had often inserted biblical aspects into the story. Be wary of contradictions between fatalism and Christian Theism.  
1. Summary 
Beowulf is the classic superhero in Anglo-Saxon culture and goes on a mission to save one of the great houses from a monster. Through a series of conflicts and plot turns, all with Beowulf exhibiting model character and exemplifying all that the Anglo Saxons valued, Beowulf eventually wrangles the monster to death and returns home, triumphant.  
1. Fatalism 
Fatalism was a worldview all Anglo Saxons held, and had many of its influences based on the harsh climate they resided in. They were polytheistic with gods similar to the Norse gods. Their prime reality was the god Wyrd, who controlled all fate. He was not loving and was impersonal, and the only certainty that he would eventually kill all men—if not today, then perhaps tomorrow. They had little reason to plan for a future—set up agriculture, improve their social ladder—and lived their lives only based on the present. While the Anglo Saxons were unsure of an afterlife, they had indeed hoped for it, as proven from burial sites. The best they could do was act in accordance with their faith.  
1. In Beowulf 
The legendary Beowulf character in the epic lives his life according to fatalism—he wrangles monsters under the sea without any hesitance, and gladly accepts death if he sensed it was near. Beowulf epitomizes the qualities that Anglo Saxons most valued, namely bravery, loyalty, and strength.  
 
1. Questions 
1. Explain why the epic is so important in tribal cultures. 
Tribal cultures had little communication with other groups and the connections between group members were greater than those of today. As there was little else to do to spend time, listening to stories told by explorers and warriors were very appealing. While some of these stories were true of real exploits, fictional legends such as Beowulf capitalized on the tribal people’s fondness for heroic stories. 
 
1. Characterize the Anglo Saxon hero 
We can get an example of the values that the Anglo Saxons prioritized most through Beowulf, of how heroes were portrayed and their actions. Beowulf is all courageous, brave, and strong—characteristic of Anglo Saxon culture and what they valued. While the Anglo Saxon hero valued revenge and was, by today’s standards, barbaric, chirality and manners were also highly valued. Thus, the Anglo Saxon warrior had to be brave and fierce when fighting, yet also courteous and chiral when at home. 
1. Elements of Fatalism in Beowulf 
Fatalism was the “carefree” idea that one was inevitable to die, if not today, then perhaps tomorrow. Thus, there was little reason to do something for the future and all actions had some context or effect right now. The most prominent example of this worldview lies in Beowulf’s continually sacrificial actions—first sailing to Hrothgar’s doomed meadhall, then tacking on greater and greater monsters until he kills Grendel. Fatalism provides reason for his seemingly sacrificial actions—Beowulf does not care that he lives or dies tomorrow, as according to fatalism, one is doomed to die.  
 
His actions were guided only by the present with little regard for their future consequences, which included death.  
 
1. How Beowulf Reflects Social Structure and Culture 
As discussed above, Beowulf provides abundant evidence for Anglo Saxon worldview. There are, however, other biases that can point to their class structure. For example, in the beginning when Beowulf had his first dinner at Hrothgar’s doomed meadhall, a lower-classed person had tried to outdo Beowulf in words. Beowulf’s courteous manners and smart speaking eventually wins over the rest of the hall and the other person is shamed. Their culture must have valued confidence and speaking as was portrayed in Beowulf.  
1. Christian Theism Worldview 
Christian Theism was a widely adopted worldview in the Western world up into around the 17th century. Religious arguments and spiritual disagreements between Protestants, Anglicans, Jesuits, and Presbyterians had existed, but they all wore the same worldview of Christian Theism.  
1. Prime Reality 
The prime reality sets the boundaries for a worldview and provides the context for the following answers. In the case of Christian Theism, it is God, the creator and the really real.  
 
1. What is the Physical World? 
Who created the things around us? What do they represent? Is the world chaotic or orderly? In Christian Theism, an important belief is that God created everything. God spoke everything to existence and could destroy everything with the same ease.  
 
[…] 
 
1. Medieval History 
1. Norman Conquest 
After the Norman subjugation of the Anglo-Saxons, the communal structure of their previous societies were replaced with the feudal system, which clearly defined who owned what and rewarded people based on their service. Normans became the nobles while the Saxons became the serfs. These two groups were vastly different from the start, however, as one spoke French (Normans originated from modern day France) and one spoke Old English, and the Normans looked down upon the peoples they subjugated. This caused resentment and friction between these two groups. 
1. Hundred Years' War 
This friction was soon erased when Anglo-Norman(-Saxons) had to unite and fight against the French. While the Normans had originally came from France and spoke French, they soon spoke English and considered them English as three centuries passed between the Norman Conquest and the Hundred Years' War.   
 
The united England, composing of Angles, Saxons, and Normans, fought against France. The war ended with France victorious, but England now captured Calais, which gave it access to a seaport.  
 
Another victory came for English literature when Geoffrey Chaucer chose to write in English, rather than French and Latin, the two accepted "scholarly" languages at the time. Soon after, many men such as John Wycliffe stressed the need for an English Bible, so the ordinary man could read it himself without needing a priest. 
1. Black Death 
The Black Death ravaged England around the same time when England was fighting France. Every person was susceptible—nobles and peasants fared the same in this period. When the Black Death left England, a new class, the middle-merchant class, emerged and its members moved out of the old feudal system and worked for themselves. It also affected spirituality as people began to question God's love in bitter times.  
1. War of Roses 
The War of Roses was a royal feud between two families who both held claims to the throne. The White Rose of York and the Red Rose of Lancaster both fought, but were resolved with a marriage.  
 
The social and culture changes happening around this period are much more significant, however. For one, the printing press was brought from Germany to England by a William Caxton, who subsequently set up a monopoly and capitalized on the demand for printing press in England. As there were no other models, Caxton controlled what could be printed. The Catholic Church failed to gain control of this printing press, so both secular and religious materials printed went into circulation.  
 
Caxton's entrepeurnial nature helped improve access to literature, and also solved some of the problems that came with the slow hand recording of literature, namely inaccuracy, loss of literature, and unstandardized language rules.  
 
The Catholic Church was also changing. On one side, it was taxing and stealing money from illiterate devotees, which left the church vulnerable to ridicule from the improved access to information. On the other hand, however, universities were first established to train religious officials, and it could be thought that the church helped ignite the creation of more education. 
 
Its greatest influence on literature was the introduction of the drama, which was first used as an evangelistic tool. 
1. Sir Gawain and the Green Knight 
J. R. R. Tolkien translated this version of Sir Gawain and the Green Knight, which fit into the broader category of Arthurian legends, which are a literary form of romance. Romances were traditionally about a knight who goes through a series of conflicts to eventually save a girl in distress, but now, it is typically narrative depicting an adventure. 
 
The romance was imported from France when William the Conquerer and the Normans came to invade England. It was intended for the upper-class as the heroes were modeled after the nobility. English storytellers, however, soon made the romance truly English by depicting an Anglo-Saxon king named Arthur who was every example of chirality and nobility.  
 
1. Drama in the Medieval Period 
Drama fulfilled the Anglo Saxon's fondness for group entertainment, and as they were mostly illiterate, drama was the perfect medium for the church to reach the masses. The main format was the morality play, focusing on the problems of humans and many had biblical lessons attached. Characters had names such as "Greed" or "Slothful" for their moral role in the play to be easily identifiable.