What are the most important qualities of a good leader?
“The best leaders are not those who seek power or have great political skill. Great leaders-and these are exceptionally rare, especially today- represent the best selves of the people they represent. 
        In a world where time is money and there are lots of pressure on us to make informative decisions, being a good leader is very important for our success and our team’s success. Having a leader is very important because he or she is unbiased, and can effectively solve conflicts and problems. In addition, without a leader, there is no one to connect the team together and view the whole team’s progress, instead, each person will do his or her own work and will only see his or her own work. A good team is eclectic, and it cannot be that unless the leader is there to connect everything together. However, being a good leader is very important for the whole team because a bad leader is the same or even worse than not having a leader at all. There are a few characteristics and qualities of a good leader, such as patience and empathy. 
        Patience is a very important quality or factor in a good leader because it can lead to success. We need to be patient all the time with all of our friends, colleagues, family members, people, and even ourselves. Ben Franklin, commonly referred to as one of the first founding fathers, or people, of the United States, and some people even consider him the first American, once noted in his speeches “he that can have patience, can have what he will”. Patience allows us to suspend our very important decisions to later, because if there can be events that would make us regret our premature decision. If we do not have patience, we will make those decisions prematurely, and then we cannot change it later if there are events that affect that decision. In this world, lots of pressure on us can make us forget our patience and make premature decisions, but we have to remind ourselves and resist the temptations, for there will be a benefit to this resistance. Patience also strengthens and reinforces our relationship with other team members or leaders. If we are not patient with them and not patient with ourselves, then, they will not like to work with you, and the relationship between you, the leader, and the other team members will be transitory. After all, who wants to lead and collaborate with a bunch of enemies?
        Passion is also a very important quality of a good leader because we cannot lead successfully without our full passion. A passionate leader will always be trying to do better, strive ahead, and be better than other teams, however, a leader without passion will not try to reach ahead, but instead, stay the same throughout and minimally meeting the requirements. A passionate leader will always lead better than a not passionate leader. Even a very good leader can be bad if he or she does not have the passion. A passionate leader is sporadically making sacrifices to make the team better. 
        There are many qualities to being a good leader in today’s world, but there are not many people who are a good leader and satisfy most of these requirements. I even think there are no people that satisfy ALL of these requirements because theoretically, there are infinite requirements, and a person, no matter how good, cannot satisfy all of them, but that’s ok. I think the only qualities that a leader should have are passion and patience, because many of the other qualities extend or are a subset of those two.