Is knowledge more of a burden or a benefit?
        Humans are very versatile creatures- we were born with various specialties, and 1 example is knowledge. Knowledge is the core of humanity, it is what fuels us to to be the ones that we are today. It is the core of our coherence, and without it, we would be little helpless beings who would not be competent enough to do most things. I seems so small and indecisive,-we don’t even think about it too often for even a fraction of our day, yet it is very important to us. In fact, every process, every thing that we are capable of all require memory and knowledge.Without it we would not be able to do anything, because we don’t know anything.
        Knowledge is the main power and factor that unites and brings us together. With knowledge, we can share it, distribute it, and receive it with everybody else. It gives us this valuable tool of communication that we use all the time now. However, when we do not have knowledge, we do not have the power to share and receive. For example, my grandfather had a concussion in an accident 10 years ago, and when he came back home from the hospital, he could not recognize us at all. My grandfather just kept saying, “Who are you?” at my Mom. Later, she told me it felt like missing him, as if he hadn’t been there. 
        Knowledge is also the main driving power behind all of our new innovations. However, we often never talk about it much when we consider the main pushing factors behind those innovations, even though it is a very essential part. However, I cannot imagine those innovations being made without knowledge. It is very important because then we can avoid the mistakes that we have made before. Therefore, it allows us to advance forwards from our mistakes and synthesize something new, or in other words, innovate.
        We humans are very lucky to have this set of tools that can do most things, and it has contributed a lot to our wellbeing. Knowledge, even though it is not widely recognized as the contributing factor in most innovations, is very useful.