Knowledge is power. In agriculture, medicine, and industry. For example, knowledge has liberated us from hunger, disease, and tedious labor. Today, however, our knowledge has become so powerful that it is beyond our control . We know how to do many things, but we do not know where, when or even whether this know-how should be used. 


Is knowledge more of a benefit or a burden?


        Knowledge is a very powerful tool. It allows us to be the complicated and versatile beings that we are today. Knowledge is the thing that defines us the most-how good we are, and how complex we are. As we have evolved over the centuries our knowledge of the things around us also have evolved and expanded, which allows us to expand more. IN addition, our lifestyle has always revolved around the boundaries of our knowledge, we are always living easier lives when we have more knowledge. It also seems that most of the professions today are all aimed towards expanding the boundaries of our knowledge.
        Most technological or other types of advances and innovations made nowadays are with the help of knowledge. For example ,medicine, astrology astronomy, chemistry, and many other other fields have been created because of the human desire for more knowledge. It is also because knowledge improves our quality of life greatly. Imagine living today without the technologies(which is the result of human knowledge). It would be very bad and hard, and that’s why knowledge improves our quality of life. When my father was a young child, about as old as me, he lived a very primitive life- without TV,, computers, microwaves, or all that stuff. He also had to work very hard and when he needed to say something to his friend, he had to say it in person, unlike today where we just text. 
        Knowledge also reassures us and frees us from some of the worries we face everyday. Many people feel more relieved when they know that their loved one has not died yet or when they hear that nobody died from the forest fire. For example, my mother was really depressed when my father did not return on time from the ship voyage. She also heard that the ship capsized, but there were a lot of survivors. At that time, she was very counter-productive. However when she heard the news that my father had survived, she increased her productivity and she did not feel depressed anymore.
        Our lives have always been largely influenced by our knowledge, many times positively, but sometimes negatively. We were born with this very powerful tool, but sometimes, we cannot control it, and it controls us. However, without the vast expanse of knowledge we have today, I don’t think we could get to this stage.