There are lots of good habits that you can make, but more bad habits. However, I am just going to write about why humans should read. I am saying this to promote reading, because it is just a fun, educational, and helpful thing, perhaps, reading can make you a world famous scientist! I tend to think that most people make more bad habits than good habits in their life, maybe because good habits is harder to make, or bad habits seem to suck you right in. I do not know, and if you do not like reading, then just try a book, or this writing will persuade you to read. I hope you like reading by then.
When I was in kindergarten, I did not know how to read, so I thought reading was very boring. However, my dad forced and taught me to read. The ability to read seemed so helpful (thanks to my dad) that it seemed as if I had been released into the world from a prison that had seemed to limit me from the world. When I look back to the time I had not been able to read, I also felt as though I was a blind man, because I could not see other things that other people could see, like I had said before. I said that because I can now see things that I had not been able to see before I learned to read, such as signs or precautions. However, I still did not see how reading books were that interesting, maybe because it is hard to write good stories in Vietnamese, or/and because of something else. I was quickly getting into the reading habit while I was getting better at Vietnamese. But that all changed after I came into Canada, because there were not that much Vietnamese books to read, and English had been very hard before I got used to it. See how good reading is, once a book hooks you in, it is like being in a prison again, but a prison that makes you a better person, and a prison that does not limit you in what ways whatsoever. Now, I would rather say that I love reading than hate it.
Reading is a very good habit to get into, once again. If everyone loved reading and read so much that they knew everything that modern scientists know, there would be more breakthroughs in the world than ever. I wish that more people read books and find them interesting, because that seems like the only way to get more people to read. I also think that reading helps you in school, because you can use phrases that you really like when you read in your writings at school. I have used that method many times, and I think that my writing gets better.