Ancient Medical Technology
        Medical technology is very important nowadays, since everyone has diseases sooner or later and the viruses are evolving to make curing diseases harder. Medical technology started long ago, where they did risky things that based on their religion. For example, many physicians drilled a hole in their patient’s head to ward off evil spirits and relieve the pain for headaches, they also believed that doing that would cure mental disorders. However, we now believe that it is silly. That said, ancient medical technology forms the basis of today’s advanced machines.
        According to ancient physicians, most diseases were because of a little bit of “bad blood.” Therefore, most patients were advised by their doctors to let them relieve some of the bad blood away from the body. The theory was based on an ancient belief of the four humors. They were phlegm, black bile, yellow bile, and blood. The theory suggests that there must be a correct balance between those four substances, or the body would be sick or ill. In addition, each person has a different balance than the next. It did not become common practice until classical Greece and Rome. There, the practice continued on with surgeons and physicians until the late nineteenth century. Surprisingly, this is 2000 years, and they still did not realize that reducing blood was harmful to patients most of the time. Now, it is banned except for a few reasons. It is used to reduce blood pressure if it is too high, but since this was very risky and the effect was unintentional, people do not do it nowadays.
        Many ancient surgeons have a variety of tools to use, including the scalpel and the hook. They were eight make of bronze, metal, or a combination of both(such as a steel blade and a bronze handle). The ancient ones have the same appearance as the modern ones, only that they are dirtier and less professional looking. A scalpel is a very sharp blade used for cutting open skin or other things in the human body. In addition, many people use a scalpel as a “hobby knife”. Another important tool that ancient surgeons used was hooks. There were two types of them, sharp and blunt. The blunt ones were for probes for dissection and raising blood vessels for closer examination. The sharp ones were commonly used to lift up and hold small pieces of tissue so they can be extracted.
        As you can see, ancient medical technology were often crude and dangerous. However, they are very important to medical technology nowadays as they provide the platform and foundation. Although these people depended heavily on their religions and belief, they did not consider their health care system to be corrupt, because there were no other better systems at that time. In addition, most of the tools that ancient surgeons used are also used by modern surgeons nowadays. Anyways, ancient medical technology is very interesting.