I was an artist in the year 2150, when there are no artists left. Well, not so strict as “no artists left,” to what I would like to call, “no real artists left.” All the artists that were left of the 21st century had either ditched the industry in search of more sensible careers, or were replaced by AI. No one would have thought that AI would replace art—it was just too “human” and too old for just a computer to take over. But it did.


At first, it seemed like no big deal. Artists didn’t have any jobs and weren’t high on society’s standard career rankings, anyways, so nobody really cared if AI took over an industry that was downsizing. 






---


The paints were slightly off-colour. The oranges had streaks of blue and red. The greens had streaks of white. The blacks had streaks of purple. But it was a sacrifice every artist had to make. Well, not the AI, which had everything at its disposal. We “human” artists had to deal with these worldly problems, like paint streaked with other paints. As if we had lots of paint. We didn’t. 


Ever since the Great Replacing of 2071, AI replaced all the jobs of the artist. The small art world was infiltrated by AI and destroyed inside out. Prominent artists had just dissapeared, fearing their lives. But it wasn’t the AI that was plotting to kill them. No—it was the government. The government was fiercely supportive of this AI project, and soon, art made by non-humans became available for humans. The art was mediocre. Something a novice, perfectionist artist would create. But it was partially our fault too. We thought nothing of this new invention. The notion that art was too “human” and too old was stuck in our stubborn little heads. And that stubborn little head is what had brought me into this situation: a warehouse in the middle of Chilliwack, at night, with a makeshift paint pallete. In other words, I was an underground artist.


Back in 2017, when I was still a young boy, I had heard of underground drug dealers or underground guns. But never an underground artist. _What bad things could art possibly be used for_, I wondered? Sure, guns could kill and drugs were _obviously_ bad, but art was just a form of human expression. _Oh, how naive I was._ I should have started way before. Now, there was no chance of reviving the human art world. Just the very need to distinguish this human art world from the normal art world said enough about how hopeless my hope was. 


A bright flash of light blinded my eyes temporarily.
“Darnet! [fix dialogue.].” I cursed as I held a smaller paintbrush between my teeth. That flash of light had made me screw up the eyes, and the black now spread outwards. It was as if he had a giant black eye. 


I heard shouting followed by a dozen more flashlights blinding my eyes. It didn’t take much brainpower to recognize that it was the police. Again. They had always followed me around, but at the last moment, I just was too quick for them. 


I threw the paint pallete onto my makeshift drawing of black-eyed Roosevelt. I stuffed the 2 paintbrushes into my coat jacket, grimacing as I could feel the wet paint seep through. Paintbrushes were a rare commodity—there was no need for them anyways. 


“STAY WHERE YOU ARE. DO NOT MOVE. STAY WHERE YOU ARE.” 


_Good luck_, I thought as I turned my drawing of a colourful towards the garage door. I wanted to give them a treat after travelling this far to a small town in the middle of British Columbia. We were human. I wanted the best for them, unlike the AI artists that the police had so wholesomely supported.


As a blue and orange faced, black eyed Roosevelt waited to greet the police, I escaped through a hatch to a tunnel that would lead me to an unknown service road. _What a shame that artists had to worry about inconveniences such as this._ In the good ol’ times, art was allowed free control of the artist’s mind. 


My hands were trembling from both the cold and the prospect of getting caught. I could barely feel the rusted rungs of the ladder. 


“Right foot down. Right hand down.” I said to calm myself. “Left foot down. Left hand down. Right foot down. Right hand do—“ I encountered a wet, sticky substance on the rung. It had a texture like paint. I inspected closer, and with the faint light from outside, I could make out a glossy, yellow substance. It _was_ paint! 


_But how had it gotten here_? I certainly hadn’t used yellow paint. And this paint was clean, too. Not streaked with reds and whites and other colours, like mine. 
A scurry of footsteps and a bang of metal emerged from down below. There was not supposed to be anybody down there. I was convinced I was alone. _What is happening?_ 
Shouting from above, and a clatter of metal with metal interrupted my trance. I hurried down the ladder. If there was something down there, I would solve it later. Another loud crashing sound, now followed by the crash of the door that secured this warehouse. I could see their flashlights scanning the room from the trapdoor above. The door was locked. There was no way they could enter down the tunnel.


I was safe from the police, for now. But I was not safe from whatever was below me.