My paints were slightly off-colour, but they worked. The oranges had streaks of blue and red. The greens had streaks of white. Accepting it was just part of being an artist. A _human_ artist, mind you. But off-colour paints was not that big of a problem, especially when you had the government on your tails. It was just an inconvenience. We didn’t even have access to paint to begin with. And black market paint was guaranteed to be low quality. 


Ever since the 2074, AI replaced all the jobs of the artist. The small art world was infiltrated by AI and destroyed inside out. The AI began on DeviantArt. Their art was mediocre. Something a novice, perfectionist artist would create. Perfect paintings of politicians. Mostly politicians, and propaganda for both sides of politics. Like silly yellow posters of the Undisputed Octavian overlooking the brothers in Vancouver and the brothers in Toronto. We artists enjoyed mocking them, for a short while.


The notion that art was too “human” for AI to be successful was stuck in our stubborn little heads. And that stubborn little head is what had brought me into this situation: a warehouse in the middle of Chilliwack, at night, with a makeshift paint palette from a foam disposable plate. I was painting Roosevelt, a figure only known in history books in nonexistent libraries. 


A bright flash of light startled me. My hand jerked sideways, and caused Roosevelt’s pupils to be bigger than his eyes. _Dammit!_. 


I heard shouting followed by more flashes of light. It didn’t take long for me to register that it was the police. Again. They had always followed me around, and this was the third time now. 


I threw the paint palette onto my drawing of black-eyed Roosevelt. I stuffed the 2 paintbrushes into my coat jacket, grimacing as I could feel the wet paint seep through. 


“STAY WHERE YOU ARE. DO NOT MOVE. STAY WHERE YOU ARE.” 


_Farewell, Roosevelt_, I thought as I turned my drawing towards the warehouse door. I snickered, and hoped they would appreciate my humour.


As a blue and orange faced, black eyed Roosevelt waited to greet the police, I slid through a trapdoor that would lead me somewhere else.


My hands were trembling from both the cold and the prospect of getting caught. The rusted rungs of the ladder stabbed into my hands. 


“Right foot down. Right hand down.” I said to calm myself. “Left foot down. Left hand down. Right foot down. Right hand do—“ I hit a wet, sticky substance on the rung. It had a texture like paint. I inspected closer, and with the faint light from outside, I could make out a glossy, yellow substance. It _was_ paint! 


_But how had it gotten here_? I certainly hadn’t used yellow paint.
 
A scurry of footsteps and a bang of metal emerged from down below. There was not supposed to be anybody down there. I was supposed to be alone. _What is happening?_ 
Shouting from above, and a clatter of metal with metal once again interrupted my trance. I hurried down the ladder, ignoring my fear of whoever was down there. Another loud banging sound was followed by the crash of the door that secured this warehouse. I could see their flashlights scanning the room from the trapdoor above. But the trapdoor was locked. There was no way they could enter the tunnel.


I was safe from the police above me, for now. But I was still not safe from whatever was down there.