Technology in 50 years
Technology has evolved over the decades, an example is the earliest room-sized cameras to the compact, rugged and waterproof GoPros today. Many technological tools have helped us in our everyday lives, from preserving wonderful memories to crunching numbers with Microsoft’s Excel. In addition, hard drives and flash drives will get more compact and will be able to stroe more data. Many people say this is unnecessary because no one needs to store that much data, except maybe large companies or lawyers. However, as the capacity increases, the code becomes more complicated, allowing developers to write richer and more functional programs. Early, when there were huge, bulky, and slow computers, 5 kilobytes, equivalent to about half a second of video, that’s how much it is. 
        As cameras become more and more compact over the years, the whole world will be under surveillance, and we will never have any privacy. Manufacturers have made many small pinhole cameras for surveillance, but I wonder how can they get any smaller, and still have good image quality. Also, manufacturers are making their auto systems better, for people who are lazy to adjust the settings and just let the camera do the work. However, aside from the cameras, there are also expensive lenses that may get more expensive. Today, most professional lens designed for professional use worths way more than the camera, some lens are priced at 20000 USD and the most expensive lens is worth over 2 million dollars! This lens is made out of high quality glass and is designed to zoom in all the way to the moon without losing any image quality! 
        In addition to cameras, computers are getting better as well. Now, the maximum storgage capacity for a hard drive is 5 terabytes, but hopefully in the near future, we can achieve hard drives up to petabytes, which is equal to 4 times the amount of books in the Library of Congress in US. Also, computers will become more powerful and smaller, with some manufacturers having developed small computers for mobility. These lightweight computers are not very strong though, but in the future, they may be stronger than humans, experts say. As computers become stronger, software designers may be able to produce more complicated code and put more functions into their programs, making people more productive. Also, many people are limited from installing too many softwares because their hard drive space is filled up. 
        This is the technology era, but who knows, maybe it could end in a decade, a century? Technology have affected our lives for the good and the bad. If there was no technology, then Amanda Todd would not have died. If there was no technology, people would be more friendly to each other, just like the old times. If there was no technology, then there would be more money spent on more useful things instead of cell phones and tablets. However, there are also some positive things that technology allows us to do, such as banking, talking, and most importantly, entertainment when there is no one around for us to play with.