Will, finally the wearer of the silver oakleaf and a ranger, has his own kingdom to protect, which is Seacliff. Will was doing many heroic things such as saving Araluen from Morgorath, or identify the sorcerer of the north to be innocent while he was training to be a ranger with Halt. So far, being a ranger in Seacliff seems a bit boring for Will, as there are no threats or dangers as a result of its strategically placed position. The castle’s back faces the sea, which intruders will have a very hard time getting up the cliff. However, the guards and men at arms there are very inexperienced, and they do not seem to show passion for their learning. There at the castle, Will thinks the best part of the castle is cooking and luxury. 


        As Will traveled to the rangers corps official meeting area, he saw a flash of movement in the trees, and he realized that it must be Crowley, the head commander of the rangers corps. After discussing the mission with Will, he hurried on to his ranger horse, Tug, and traveled to the place of Macindaw. There, he disguised himself as a jongleur to get as much information as possible for the sorcerer. Then, he went into the Grimsdell Woods and tried to find the sorcerer, whether he is real or not. After a moment, a dark shape loomed above him, and Will got scared and ran away. After he got into the castle walls, he had a bad night of sleep. The next day, he was recruited to Ermon’s office. Ermon said that he was sick and needed a ranger to help him recover. Will was taken by surprise, but he still remained calm as a result of years and years of training with the famous ranger Halt. Then, they sped off out of the castle so that Ermon could remain alive. Will went to the healer to heal Ermon. After Ermon had been healed, Will went to the castle to rescue Alyss, his friend, out of jail. However, as he neared the entrance, the jailkeeper went in, so he was forced to leave quickly. As he climbed down from the jail, he heard the rope sagging a bit as a result of cutting from above. He finally managed to get his hand on the rock and climbed down slowly. The End.


        The Sorcerer of the North is a very good book in the Ranger’s Apprentice series that I think everyone should read.