American Media, Terrorists, and their Secret Alliance


Liberal bias or not, american media is slowly destroying our democracy


First, we need to ask ourselves this question: What do terrorists want? Terrorism is certainly not a full fledged political ideology like Socialism or Anarchism; it is rather a tactic used by smaller, often extremist, groups to push their ideologies forward into bigger states, like the US. It could also be thought of as a rather extreme form of missionary work, to force extremist Islamic ideals into the Western world. 


The media


History
Television first exploded around the mid-1950s, when its price dropped from $500 to an affordable $200 in 1953. With about 3 million viewers by the start of the decade, television became a popular tool for politicians to share their platforms and influence public opinion. By the 1960s, television networks were considered the tipping point in the decisive Nixon vs Kennedy presidential election, as broadcasting the presidential debates showcased Kennedy’s calm and confident nature. The 1960s election was only the first step for TV, as television took the reins of politics and continued to play a major role in all the future elections.


Promotes fear, uses sensationalism and shocking (transition paragraph)
State funding for television news programs slowly decreased, and helping democracy had to step aside for profits. Some networks decided if they switched kept to a sensationalist and shock-based style of broadcasting news, then they would have more viewers. After all, humans naturally are interested in anything shocking than informative. In short, it was the 1960s version of our clickbait today. Soon, however, other networks caught hold of this strategy and applied it to their networks. Thus, the question remains: how do we differentiate ourselves from the other networks who are using the same strategy? The answer to them was neglect their public service—providing information to voters—and rank stories not based on their information, but on their shock, fear, and sensationalism.




Effects of the 24 hour news cycle


We would have thought that heavily resorting to sensationalism and fear would be the last downfall of television, but with the advent of 24 hour news, television just became much, much worse. What used to be quality stories that was edited and revised by countless people before they could be broadcasted was now a mess of twisted facts, sensational opinions, and fear, coupled with lackluster quality. 


What capitalism and an innate greed for money does to television (corrupt it) (adds fear)


Now, armed with the 2 things above, what could American television do to viewers with a terrorist attack? (transition paragraph)


Research/statistics showing:
        Fear levels before and after 9/11
        Fear that is caused by the media, mostly television
        Why such high fear?
        Refer to paragraphs above and say high fear, because it makes viewers keep watching
        
Effects this has later on
        Could be why US government it so strict for safety
        Turned people’s attention away from other important issues, like healthcare, infrastructure
        The media basically amplified whatever effect the terror attacks were having. 


The beginnings of a police state? (perhaps 2 paragphs)
        With the media amplifying the public’s concern on terrorism, then the government will be forced to do something.
        That “something” is only a response to placate the public’s hollow fear about national security. It might not spell benefits in the long term for America as a whole, and could even be the beginnings of a strict, authoritarian police state. 
        This is not just a far fletched guess, however, as we can see some signs of the government exploiting the call for more security today. 
        Some examples: searching houses without warrants, police brutality.


Solutions