American Media, Terrorists, and their Secret Alliance


Liberal bias or not, american media is slowly destroying our democracy


Adelaide University associate lecturer David Olney warned, “"The threat to democracy is our response to terrorism.”


What do terrorists want?

First, we need to ask ourselves this question: What do terrorists want? Terrorism is certainly not a full fledged political ideology like Socialism or Anarchism; it is rather a tactic used by smaller, often extremist, groups to push their ideologies forward into bigger states, like the US. It could also be thought of as a rather extreme form of missionary work, to force extremist Islamic ideals into the Western world. Or perhaps, the answer could be more simple, contained in the word terrorism itself: terror. 


The media


History
Let us first review the history of television and the causes for the “downfall” of television. It first exploded around the mid-1950s, when its price dropped from $500 to an affordable $200 in 1953. With about 3 million viewers by the start of the decade, television became a popular tool for politicians to share their platforms and influence public opinion. By the 1960s, television networks were considered the tipping point in the decisive Nixon vs Kennedy presidential election, as broadcasting the presidential debates showcased Kennedy’s calm and confident nature. The 1960s election was only the first step for TV, as television took the reins of politics and continued to play a major role in all the future elections.


Promotes fear, uses sensationalism and shocking (transition paragraph)
State funding for television news programs slowly decreased, and helping democracy had to step aside for profits. Some networks decided if they switched kept to a sensationalist and shock-based style of broadcasting news, then they would have more viewers. After all, humans naturally are interested in anything shocking than informative. In short, it was the 1960s version of our clickbait today. Soon, however, other networks caught hold of this strategy and applied it to their networks. Thus, the question remains: how do we differentiate ourselves from the other networks who are using the same strategy? The answer to them was neglect their public service—providing information to voters—and rank stories not based on their information, but on their shock, fear, and sensationalism.




Effects of the 24 hour news cycle
We would have thought that heavily resorting to sensationalism and fear would be the last downfall of television, but with the advent of 24 hour news, television just became much, much worse. What used to be quality stories that was edited by countless people before broadcasting was now a mess of twisted facts, sensational opinion, fear, and all coupled with lackluster quality. In addition, increasing from broadcasting 1 hour of news everyday to 24 hours meant journalists had to fill the additional space with opinions, scandals, and fear. 


Transition


Now, armed with the 24 hour news and sensationalism, what could American television do to their viewers with a terrorist attack? We all got a taste of television’s power after 9/11 happened. The news media, especially television, used this opportunity to pour vials of fear into Americans. Footage of the planes crashing into the twin towers was re-aired over and over again, forever instilling the trauma of 9/11 into all of television viewers. Betraying their original purpose as the guardian of democracy, television took a wildly different course and reported speculations, “expert” opinions, and some facts. 


Public fear of 9/11 suddenly spiked, partly amplified by the media, and those who reported watching more TV in the few weeks after 9/11 were more fearful and stressed about future terrorist attacks. And when TV networks offer not 24 hour news coverage, but rather 24 hours of shock, drama, and fear (all 3 of which play very well with terror attacks). What makes it worse is that there is no escape from the echo chamber of terrorist attacks, deaths, and the overlooming question of “Will my city be next?” 


We would have expected that concerns for terrorism decline in a country littered with crumbling bridges and failing healthcare solutions. It is easy to see why terrorism remains high on the public’s concern, if we look at the dozens of terror stories on TV. Repeated exposure to television and its disturbing videos of terrorist attacks leads to a greater perception that terrorism is a greater risk. People are less likely to incur emotions for a headline that says “American road accidents on the rise,” than a more catchy and sensationalist headline, “19 DEAD IN POP CONCERT SUICIDE BOMB.” Even when the facts are articulated and laid neat for the public to see, the fear of terrorism instilled into them by fear mongering television still elicits more emotions than numbers and percentages. In short, emotions trump facts in the public’s fear. 







Research/statistics showing:
        Fear levels before and after 9/11
        Fear that is caused by the media, mostly television
        Why such high fear?
        Refer to paragraphs above and say high fear, because it makes viewers keep watching
        
Effects this has later on
        Could be why US government it so strict for safety
        Turned people’s attention away from other important issues, like healthcare, infrastructure
        The media basically amplified whatever effect the terror attacks were having. 


The beginnings of a police state? (perhaps 2 paragphs)
        With the media amplifying the public’s concern on terrorism, then the government will be forced to do something.
        That “something” is only a response to placate the public’s hollow fear about national security. It might not spell benefits in the long term for America as a whole, and could even be the beginnings of a strict, authoritarian police state. 
        This is not just a far fletched guess, however, as we can see some signs of the government exploiting the call for more security today. 
        Some examples: searching houses without warrants, police brutality.


Solutions