American Media, Terrorists, and their Secret Alliance


Liberal bias or not, american media is slowly destroying our democracy


Adelaide University associate lecturer David Olney warned, “"The threat to democracy is our response to terrorism.”




What do terrorists want?

Terrorism, perhaps, lacks a real “big picture” meaning, and the only meaning we can pull from these seemingly random events is hidden within the word itself: terror. 


If stopping terrorism remains high on our priority list, then it would make sense to eradicate terror and educate the public why there is no reason to fear terrorism. After all, those who have even the smallest of consciences realize that amplifying fear in an already terrified public is immoral at best and simply evil at worst. 


The media


History
Let us first review the history of television and the causes for the “downfall” of television. It first exploded around the mid-1950s, when its price dropped from $500 to an affordable $200 in 1953. With about 3 million viewers by the start of the decade, television became a popular tool for politicians to share their platforms and influence public opinion. By the 1960s, television networks were considered the tipping point in the decisive Nixon vs Kennedy presidential election, as broadcasting the presidential debates showcased Kennedy’s calm and confident nature. The 1960s election was only the first step for TV, as television took the reins of politics and continued to play a major role in all the future elections.


Promotes fear, uses sensationalism and shocking (transition paragraph)
State funding for television news programs slowly decreased, and helping democracy had to step aside for profits. Some networks decided if they switched kept to a sensationalist and shock-based style of broadcasting news, then they would have more viewers. After all, humans naturally are interested in anything shocking than informative. In short, it was the 1960s version of our clickbait today. Soon, however, other networks caught hold of this strategy and applied it to their networks. Thus, the question remains: how do we differentiate ourselves from the other networks who are using the same strategy? The answer to them was neglect their public service—providing information to voters—and rank stories not based on their information, but on their shock, fear, and sensationalism.




Effects of the 24 hour news cycle
We would have thought that heavily resorting to sensationalism and fear would be the last downfall of television, but with the advent of 24 hour news, television just became much, much worse. What used to be quality stories that was edited by countless people before broadcasting was now a mess of twisted facts, sensational opinion, fear, and all coupled with lackluster quality. In addition, increasing from broadcasting 1 hour of news everyday to 24 hours meant journalists had to fill the additional space with opinions, scandals, and fear. 


Transition


Now, armed with the 24 hour news and sensationalism, what could American television do to their viewers with a terrorist attack? We all got a taste of television’s power after 9/11 happened. The news media, especially television, used this opportunity to pour vials of fear into Americans. Footage of the planes crashing into the twin towers was re-aired over and over again, forever instilling the trauma of 9/11 into all of television viewers. Betraying their original purpose as the guardian of democracy, television took a wildly different course and reported speculations, “expert” opinions, and some facts. 


Public fear of 9/11 suddenly spiked, partly amplified by the media, and those who reported watching more TV in the few weeks after 9/11 were more fearful and stressed about future terrorist attacks. And when TV networks offer not 24 hour news coverage, but rather 24 hours of shock, drama, and fear (all 3 of which play very well with terror attacks). What makes it worse is that there is no escape from the echo chamber of terrorist attacks, deaths, and the overlooming question of “Will my city be next?” 


We would have expected that concerns for terrorism decline in a country littered with crumbling bridges and failing healthcare solutions. It is easy to see why terrorism remains high on the public’s concern, if we look at the dozens of terror stories on TV. Repeated exposure to television and its disturbing videos of terrorist attacks leads to a greater perception that terrorism is a greater risk. People are less likely to incur emotions for a headline that says “American road accidents on the rise,” than a more catchy and sensationalist headline, “19 DEAD IN POP CONCERT SUICIDE BOMB.” Even when the facts are articulated and laid neat for the public to see, the fear of terrorism instilled into them by fear mongering television still elicits more emotions than numbers and percentages. In short, emotions trump facts in the public’s fear. 

We could say television and terrorists have a mutually beneficial relationship, in which terrorism gives something television wants (fear). This also benefits terrorists too, in that television publicizes and amplifies the terror that these attacks have caused. Television provides a sensational story to these plain numbers, captivates the public and mesmerizes them into a horror story. In fact, the Atlantic have gone so far as to say “Terrorism is aimed at the people watching.” Some have even commented that the explosion of home television was really when terrorism began. Nonetheless, terrorism and television both complement each other to form a beast that could alter political agendas, advance extremist ideals, sway the opinions of the public, and instill their viewers with fear.


Can this corporate profit-based mantra “If it bleeds, it leads” of television have enough power to control the public’s lives? We can already see results when fear captures a large group of people. On January 27, Trump signed an executive order banning immigration from Iraq, Syria, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen—the seven predominantly Muslim countries—for 90 days. Immigration from Syria was banned indefinitely. This executive order was the result of TV-induced fear, and the public’s vocal demands for the government to do something about the crisis of terrorism they see on TV has been met. 


The border wall is another example of fear-driven politics. Trump doesn’t need to prove to his supporters that the border wall is financially viable (it’s not) or will protect Americans; he just needs to do something large, regardless of whether it is actually beneficial, to coerce his supporters into believing their false fear has been falsely resolved. An expensive project that fails at solving the wrong problem is the exact opposite of the things we need! Given the amount of attention and money put into preventing terrorism, we should ask ourselves, as John Mueller puts it, “how much we should spend on preventing a disease that kills 6 per year.” 


An echo chamber of fear might even be the precedent for a harsh police state, where every individual’s actions and thoughts are scrutinized by the government. “But the Constitution and other documents are supposed to safeguard against this from happening,” you reply. These documents are just symbols that politicians throw around to accuse one another of “violating the Constitution,” as if we were living in a perfect America in which the government follows its own laws. Already, the NSA[1] has violated the very law it seeks to uphold: the Constitution. Police are also somehow above the law, searching houses without warrants and forcing people to unlock their phones, along with the huge issue of police brutality. We need to stop talking about the Constitution and other “freedom” documents as if they are laws that will be strictly upheld. They are not. With the Constitution and the media—the two supposed safeguards of democracy—failing, then how can we put so much emphasis on faraway lands when our democracy is in pieces? 






________________
[1] https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2014/07/a-new-surveillance-whistleblower-emerges/374722/