To have social conscience is to be compelled and to be attached to the wellbeing of society, and not just the wellbeing of one’s self. Rather than being wholly invested in one’s interest, anyone that has social conscience would be invested in society’s interests, even if it does not benefit him.


The latter essay, “The Shadow of Captain Bligh,” by Hugh Maclennan asserts that increasing connectivity leads to increased social conscience which has lead to lower productivity in producing great pieces of art. This assertion conflicts with the Christian notion that one should be moral and help those who are in need, putting social conscience before personal interests. John Donne’s essay obviously supports the Christian worldview given the time it was written in. His essay emphasizes the unity of man, that “no man is an island, entire of itself; every man is a piece of the continent, a part of the main.”


MacLennan’s essay is much more connected to the modern world, and Donne’s ideas are more archaic in that they presume Christianity is the dominant worldview. In “The Shadow of Captain Bligh,” the author denounces the increasing connectivity of the 21st century and its role in the decrease of great works being produced. He compares it to the sciences, which is unhampered by the burden of social conscience, whereas modern artists with exceptional talent, like Schweitzer, waste his talents “in the service of others,” and “squandered his gifts on savages.” This essay brings light to the societal consequences of social conscience, that responsibility for the people might not mean benefiting the people.


My views lie somewhere in between those of McLennan and Donne. McLennan suggests that social conscience has lead to the downfall of modern art, but he forgets that many works of art, albeit not necessarily considered “great” by his standards, come from those with an overwhelming sense of social conscience: Banksy, Mandela, and Luther’s theses. His argument that “enjoying such peace of mind, physicists and chemists have been able to devote the full force of their intellects to their work, and… has been more impressive than that of artists who were their contemporaries” ignores the fact that art without a peace of mind leads to works like van Gogh. Rather, art is a reflection of the mind—unfiltered, unedited, and in most cases, agitated. 




“Another man may be sick too, and sick to death, and this affliction may lie in his bowels, as gold in a mine, and be of no use to him; but this bell, that tells me of his affliction, digs out and applies that gold to me: if by this consideration of another's danger I take mine own into contemplation”


I like this quote not only because of the beautiful prose it uses, but also because of the interesting application of social conscience Donne had thought of. The “bell” of social conscience now applies to Donne’s personal benefit, uncharacteristic of the original definition of social conscience.