Famous people are very celebrated because they contribute to the human race more than the average human does.  If you want to be famous, you have to have responsibility too, so that you can keep being famous or even be more famous. However, bad things about you can lead you to being infamous. For me, I would certainly like to be famous, since I would get everybody’s attention.
 I really admire famous people because i want to be like them too, like Thomas Edison, who invented many house-hold items that we use a lot of the time, such as the electric light bulb. If I can choose which subject to be famous at, i would certainly choose science and technology since these subjects are very cool and this is the science and tech era. But being famous have some disadvantages too, such as if you do something, that action is all going to the media. However, you receive a lot of money just from signing autographs, which is the main part of being famous. One of my favorite famous people is bill gates, because he does not use one hundred percent of his income, or profit, he gives most of it to universities and charity. Not only that I like him because he is not greedy, but he also is very smart, unlike the president of apple, who works full time. How he gets money is very simple, he sits at home and relax, while his company (Microsoft) sales programs and he earns money, some of which goes to his employees. In fact, his income is so stable that he even earns his money when he is sleeping. Another all time famous people that I admire are Albert Einstein, and if you do not know him, then you are doomed! Everyone should know him, especially smart geeks, he is the one who invented the famous equation e=mc2 , know do you know? Well, I want to discover or invent something that everybody knows, and I also want to do that to support my country, Vietnam.
As you know, being famous is really special, especially for me. But the main thing to do in life is to contribute more to the human race, not to be more famous. If you do that, you have done a better job in your life than those famous people that I just wrote about.