The Most Memorable Handball Game
In sports, there are many memorable experiences that help us when we are sad. Those experiences may be scoring points, discovering a new aspect of the game, or winning. These experiences are very important when we are angry or frustrated or just raging. I have many memorable experiences from the sports that I play, especially European Handball. My most memorable experience was when I played handball for the first time. 
Since this was my classmates’ and my first time playing handball in PE, the game was not flowing as much because our teacher had to stop to explain the rules or strategies that might help teams win. The rules that changed the game the most was the smaller crease. The crease in the real one was bigger and more circular than the basketball crease that we used, but it was a commensurate size. Also, the penalty for stepping in the crease was not as harsh because we just had to give the ball to the opponent. I took advantage of this rule by stepping in the crease whenever we do not have the ball. Therefore, I thought that we do not have to give the ball to the opponent because they already have it. I sometimes run across the whole crease in order to get to a better defensive position when my opponent has the ball. Also, I jumped into the crease once when my opponent was preparing to take a shot. I reasoned that it would provide a way better chance of blocking the goal. This confounded my teacher and my opponents, who said, “It ruins the game” with a didactic voice. 
Another rule that I took advantage of was also about the crease. Whenever I was preparing to shoot, I would jump into the crease super high and shoot down. Therefore, I would be closer to the goalie and I would have the element of surprise on my side. Using this strategy, I scored any shots that were almost impossible to block by the goalies in my class. However, this rule was counter effective at the beginning stages because I did not jump high enough or I landed before the ball could go into the net. However, after a while of using that trick, it got burgeoned and the goalies got used to it and was prepared for it. Also, the opponents also copied that trick, but had to brook the trial and error that I countenanced earlier. 
The first time that I played handball was probably the funniest experience ever in handball. I think that this was because I was making progress and being creative about the rules.  Of course, I only use the strategy to win when we are desperate and always losing. Also, I think that the first time we do everything, from driving a car to riding a bike, is the funnest of all.