Lytton Strachey writes on the legendary founder of modern nursing Florence Nightingale in his essay. His admiration and awe at the success and unwavering determination of Nightingale to combat her odds are evident through his diction, rhetorical questions, and use of narrative techniques.


Strachey is not afraid to let his emotions shine in this essay through his word choice and imagery. The first paragraph gives a good impression of the vivid and an almost hyperbolic imagery of Nightingale. "Gliding through the horrors of the hospital," Nightingale--"maiden of high degree who threw aside the pleasures of life of ease to succour the afflicted"--"consecrate[s] with radiance." Strachey's excessive use of adverbs and adjectives to form the imagery of an angel in the reader distinguishes his essay from the other more formal ones. Vivid and concrete examples of Nightingale's angelic nature follow, from her being the "morbid one" to sew the dolls her sister had torn apart, to her vision of heaven "filled with suffering patients." This use of imagery engages the readers imagination and helps Strachey share his admiration of Nightingale.


The second paragraph of Strachey's essay is almost entirely composed of rhetorical questions that help advance his ideas. These questions heighten the reader's interest in Nightingale's situation and encourage them in formulating their own opinions on why Nightingale was as angelic as Strachey had described. As readers use their imaginations to justify why Nightingale might have sacrificed the "pleasures of a life of ease to succour the afflicted," Strachey interjects and guides the reader with notes of his own, notably that "a demon possessed her," and how "she poured into [her diary] the agitations of her soul."


These rhetorical questions also help advance the narrative Strachey uses to interest the reader in his essay. He guides the reader through Nightingale's inner struggles and outer success with several narrative elements throughout his essay, imagery and rhetorical questions being two. He develops the narrative of Nightingale by first confirming the reader's beliefs of "the popular conception of Florence Nightingale," then hinting at the hidden sides of this angel: "But the truth was different... A demon possessed her." In addition, immediately after Strachey raises doubts as to why Nightingale would want to be such an angel rather than choose the "pleasures of a life of ease," he recounts her inner struggles and hard work. Strachey's choice of a narrative approach to this essay certainly helps the reader in sharing his awe and admiration.


With these 3 techniques of diction, use of rhetorical questions, and narration, Strachey effectively shares Nightingale's life story, full with her struggles and successes.