Women in Stem




1. Not every difference in women and men can be blamed on the bigoted, oppressive nature of society or men. If it is an almost universally accepted fact that women are different then men, then why do we freak out when there is a slight discrepancy in their salaries or the number of jobs they hold in STEM? This discrepancy isn’t the same as the sexism problems in the past, when women weren’t allowed basic human rights. Advocating for women’s right to vote was noble because women /wanted/ to vote, and couldn’t. We advocated for voting rights because they /couldn’t/ vote. However, the situation is markedly  different in the STEM movement. Women /can/ go into STEM—there is nothing stopping them, which begs the question: why are we advocating for women in STEM anyway?


2. Men and women are inherently different. For one, men are more concerned with money and status, while women are more concerned with relationships and family.


In addition, we have to work towards equality, not equity. Equality means men and women have the same opportunity to succeed, whereas equity means men and women are exactly the same.


3. The premise of this “girls into STEM” movement is the disproportionate number of women in STEM. STEM programs for girls aim to alleviate this “misrepresentation of women.” They claim to advocate for gender equality, presumably by making sure the number of women in STEM is exactly equal to the number of men in STEM. That, unfortunately, is not how gender equality works. Misogyny and bias could be used to explain this discrepancy 20 years ago, when sexism was rampant. In 2017, however, it is time to start looking for another cause of this discrepancy: that girls might not want to go into STEM in the first place. /But the money! But it’s so prestigious!/ But who said money was what women wanted? A growing body of research confirms that men prefer wealth and status, while women prefer family and relationships (Ingalhalikar, et al., 2014). 


Statistics tell us that the same percentage of women as men hold degrees in the US. The difference, however, is greater when we look at the number of masters degrees held by men versus women. In 2015, 450 thousand women held masters degrees, whereas only 300 thousand men held masters degrees (Statista). If we were to follow the reasoning of these activists, then men should be the ones the activists are advocating for. Of course, women overwhelmingly choose humanities-related fields, rather than STEM fields, but still, it makes no difference. What field they choose to study is no place for these so called activists to start poring over. It might just be the simple truth that women are more interested in studying relationships rather than numbers. 


Ingalhalikar, et al. “Sex differences in the structural connectome of the human brain.” /Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences in the United States of America/  vol. 111, no. 2.