12/17/13
Yesterday was the first weekday in this week, and also a school day. At my school, I did many fun stuff, such as art, well it is not that fun, but at least it is better than doing nothing. For the art, I drew on a giant piece of paper, taped to my desk, which was ridiculous. At first, I thought it was a joke by my teacher, taping the art into my desk. He said it was an art contest, and to win, you have to draw a winter scene, and the judges vote for their favorite. At first, I thought that it was really easy, but then it got harder and harder the more time I spent on making it perfect. Also, my class had written a writing pretest. 




12/20/13




Today, it was snowing very badly at first at 8:00 in the morning,  but it tapered off in the
evening, and ended with just a bit of snow, more than enough to feel the
crunchiness of it under your boots. I had thought that the snow was only a bit
deep before it stopped snowing, like the one that happened recently. However, the snow was awfully thick.
Even though I wore boots, the snow sneaked into my shoe like crazy. There was
so much water and snow in my boots that when I walked, I could hear them sloshing
around my feet like crazy. After recess, I expected that our class continued on the art that we did before recess, printmaking. Making prints was really fun, it is like copying someone‘s art, while making your own art.








19/12/2013


It was almost winter break! I could feel the excitement rushing through my spine. On thursday, we usually had gym, but not anymore because it was almost winter break, and the school needed to set up for the concert tonight at 6:00. When we went to the computer lab, I brought my letter to one of the project chef donors, to retype it because we had written it wrong. It was wrong because I and my partner made the mistake of writing that they had helped us cook, but they were only the donors. I worked on my picture project, a project where you have to take a picture and edit it to make it look better, however, the file format was .pdn - paint.net - and I wanted to change it to a JPEG even though I could still work with that.   




21/12/2013




Today, it was the first day of winter, and the first day of the winter break at my school. In the morning, I slept lazily, but the temptation for me to read my book was so strong, I decided to get out of bed and start reading my book. The book was very interesting, kind of like a science fiction, where airships replaced airplanes, and a new type of gas “ hydrium” was used to make the airship float. Also, the gas is very light, lighter than hydrogen and way lighter than helium. Matt Cruse, the main character, is on a journey to salvage an ancient ship that had been believed to carry gold for hundreds of years. Anyways, when I started playing chess with my uncle at philadelphia, I started to make blunders and mistakes, including the one where he got my queen for free! I could tell that he improved a ton on chess, and started to get new interest in it. I lost one more game, feeling disappointed. After dinner, I quickly got up stairs and started reading my book once again today. I reached the most exciting part when my mom asked me to clean my clothes wardrobe. 




23/12/13


Today was a boring day, doing my homework. I would love to read books, but there were none of them that seems interesting to me, and the ones that seem interesting to me is not at my house or is not yet released, like the Blood of Olympus. After a while, I decided to play chess with my uncle on facebook, only to find that he was not on facebook. Then, I decided to write my report about news that I find on CBC or any other websites. After five minutes of finding on CBC, I gave up and started searching for what I wanted to hear about, and search it up. Then, the thought of the sinking of the Costa Concordia came to my mind, and I started writing about it. When I was taking the notes, I knew many things about the sinking of the ship that I did not know before. I also knew this painstakingly, but effective, method of hauling a shi[ upright from its sinking position, in which it was tilted to the left a bit. 






21/12/2013


Today was the second day of Winter Break, a break that lasts for 2 weeks long. Today, I thought that it was already 10:00 when I woke up. However, I figured that it was only 8:00, which was pretty early. Then, I got to the computer and started looking for news reports that I might be interested in writing. After a while, I could not find any good news reports, so I started looking for this web site called news4youth, where it includes all of the news that kids like me should hear, and quickly found one. It was about increased tourists in arctic because it is melting, which was a very bad thing to hear about. I also, found out that tankers are going through the arctic because it is melting very quickly. 


25/12/2013


Today was the first day that I had snowboarded for this winter season. In the past, I usually think of snowboarding as hard to learn the basics; however the new snowboard destroyed that thought. First, I thought that I needed a lot of time to review my skills and instincts, however, it was not like I thought, I quickly reviewed all of my skills, and learned some new skills, on my first time down a short hill, even  though I fell a couple of times. I figured out that the new snowboard was way easier for beginners like me to stop oneself from going down to fast. My old board was so hard to turn and stop, I had to fall down every time I wanted to stop myself. Fortunately, my dad bought me a new snowboard to compensate for the old one. However, on my first try, it was not very good. When I was down the hill, I was struggling to open my binders, and I almost cried when my dad came over to help me. He too, was struggling to open my binders.


12/17/2013
Yesterday, the first time I opened my eyes, I quickly went down to check if Santa gave me a present. Unfortunately, I did not get the present I had wanted for Christmas, however, I got a decent present, enough for me to buy something I wanted. Guess what I got, Santa gave me a fifty dollars gift card. I thought that it was a present from my parents, and I have several witnesses to prove it. First, it looked exactly like my mom’s handwriting, well not exactly because she did not want me to figure out that it was she. Second, she spelled Santa Claus wrong, which was kind of funny, and third, I put it on the chimney on the twenty fifth, not the twenty fourth, so I kind of think that my mom gave it to me. Then, after lunch, my family and I went to Metropolis to buy some books from Chapters and use our gift cards. At first, I was interested in looking around, but it got very boring after an hour. I had nothing to do. Then, I went to the chess section and read a few books about chess, but it was also boring, since some of those were too complicated for me. Then, I found my brother, reading one of the chess books that he had borrowed. He looked so focused. Finally, my mom picked us up, and we headed to the restaurant to eat. It was a Japanese restaurant, and my stomach was so full, I almost fell asleep.


29/12/2013


Today, it was a very fine day. In the morning, I worked on my news summary, IXL, journal, and my topics writing. Well, I guess that you do not want to hear about what I did at that part, because it is pretty boring and will  




30/12/13


Today was a fine, and boring day, not from work, but from waiting at London Drugs for the doctor. You know that feeling right, waiting while you are being sick. Not only that I had to wait for the doctor, but I have to wait for the medicine for forty minutes to get home, writing this. Well, I guess I do not have anything to tell you right now, so I will continue writing after I went to Stanley Park this evening. 




12/31/13


Today was a very boring day. However, my dad said that we are going to go to the Robson Square, a place that I had been wishing I could go to anytime, this evening. This morning, I worked on my IXL, journal writing, news summary, and topics. It is so boooring! I am also hungry, and that makes a perfect combination, boringness and hungriness. I have nothing to tell you right now, so maybe I will tell my first impressions after I get home from Robson Square.






1/2/2014


Today was a very fun day; I got to go to Science World! Going to Science World have always been part of my “to-go” place. When I first came to Canada, I heard that Science World was a very fun place, so I dreamed of going there for a very long time until I was in grade 2. My teacher planned a class field trip to Science World, and I got so excited that I might start to get crazy. After a long wait, the day I had been looking forward to came. In the morning, I reminded myself that we are going to Science World today, and there was nothing to worry about, but something in my mind told me that I should worry. When I went to Science World, the first exhibit was as cool as I thought it would be, and all the other shows and exhibits were cool too. After that experience, I dreamed of going to Science World again, and I got to go finally! The place was the same, but I could see that Science World added some new games and exhibits. It was said when it was near the closing hour, and we went home.




1/3/2014


Today was a very boring day. I got to go nowhere, and I had to do all my homework, which includes IXL, topics writing, news summary, and this journal. I do not think that I have any large events to tell you right now. 


1/5/2014
Today was a super boring day. I thought my head would explode from the boringness of it. However, after lunch, I heard a loud sound, like a tough dish falling to the ground. I suspected that it was my dad, because my mom was very careful with things, and she have more experience being in the kitchen than anyone else in the family. The food that my mom cooked was fine, but it contained some of the foods that I hate, such as fish. I think that was all so far, and I do not think that I have anything that might be fun to tell you right now. I am back, and I finally got to rest. I played chess and did tactics puzzles. Normally, the tactics were at my brother’s level, which was higher than mine. What I did yesterday was I did a bunch of puzzles wrong intentionally to get the rating down so that I can practice too. After what seemed like forever, I finally got the rating to my level, and I practiced it. 


1/6/2014


Today was a different day from the rest. While I was sleeping on my cozy bed and dreaming, my brother was shouting “ WAKE UP!!!”. Well, when I was dreaming, I heard something moving, so I opened my eyes. The moving thing looked like my mom, and she was sitting on my brother’s bed. I did not know why. Then, I heard, “WAKE UP!” I wondered why my brother was shouting that, when mom was in front of him. I realized that was not my mom, it was my brother sitting on his bed! It was seven of the clock after all. Then, I hopped on to the car and went to school. School was the same, except for a few “ How’s your break” from a few people. Also, the school hired a professional dance teacher, who had just finished teaching dance in India before he moved here. The dancing was remarkably fun, with awesome songs and lyrics.




1/8/2014


When I woke up today, all I could think of was how mad my brother had been during the night. While the alarm was ringing, I was not paying any attention because I was being  too focused on my dream, but it changed when I forced myself to wake up and hit the button on the phone, since that stops the alarm from ringing. So I got changed, ate breakfast, got in dad’s car, and got to school. After a few weeks of being away from school, staying at school is kind of fun and interesting. Quickly, I looked on today’s schedule, and I was surprised that we had no gym today, since we go to gym on Wednesdays and Thursdays. After I had put down my backpack and everything else, I headed over to my desk and read the book that I just brought from the library. It was silverwing. At lunch, I noticed that the food was one of my favorite. I did not want to waste any time, so I quickly ate my lunch and ate the food from the school.


1/10/2014


Today was the last day of school for this week. Everyday, I always go to the library first thing when I get to school. So today, I was going to take out the next book in the Silverwing saga. However, the librarian stopped me and said that he needed to fix the book before I could take it out, which filled me with disappointment. Today, I went into class and waited for the teacher to start. The first thing that I, or my class, did was math. The teacher just gave us the pages and we had to do them before the due date. Then, there was the dance. The dance leader is Lee, which I thought he was Chinese, because of the name. My teacher gave the class a bit of a summary about what is going to happen: Lee teaches us dance. I was surprised to hear and realize that he was a professional dance teacher. His attitude is really good, and he is fun to hear too. On the first session, I thought that he was just going to dance, and the students have to watch and imitate him. However, I realized that it was just the warm-up. 




1/11/2014


Today was just like any day in Winter Break, boring and boring. Today, I got back to my normal schedule in Winter Break: IXL, cbc news summary, writing, and journal. Luckily, this is the last bit of homework that I have to do for today. For the cbc news summary, I did the soaring demand for flu shots and vaccine. And for the writing topics, I did “ Are we dependent on technology nowadays”. Then, I went to Sylvan, waited for my dad and mom to finish, and went home. 


1/13/2014


Today, I went to Sylvan Learning Center after school for the placement test. At first, I thought they would do the same kind of test that they did with Kumon, but they did multiple, or several tests.  I thought they would only test me on writing, but it came as a surprise to me that not only were there a writing test, but there were also some other tests, such as vocabulary, grammar, and listening test.  I thought the tests were harder than what I would do in school, but that changed when I realized that in school, we were doing a different thing. 


Today, was a very boring day. It was the same day as the others, wake up early, eat breakfast, and go to school. Today, we had gym. We played handball in gym. At first, I did not know that hand ball was so fun, but now that I have played it, it seems amazingly attractive, and fun as well. After that there was computers. That is my favorite part of Thursdays. After school, I went to my brother’s chess training school to eat, which was chicken.
 
18/1/2014


Today seems as if it was winter break all over again. I have to wake up, eat breakfast, and then study. Then, I ate lunch. Since my mom and my dad are going to this course, I and my brother ate instant noodles. I do not think I have anything to tell you right now, bye. 


19/01/2014


Today, was a very fun day. I go to go snowboarding on Mount Seymour. I had waited for this very day for  a very long time, and there it is. Even though I went snowboarding four times including today in this winter season, the first three were not very successful. That was because most of the lifts and runs were not open. I do not know why they did not open all of those lifts, but I think that it was because they did not had enough snow. Anyways, I went to the lodge chairlift, which I like to call the medium chairlift, first when I went to Seymour. After a few runs, I was kind of bored of the lodge chairlift, so I went to the Mystery Peak Express. At first glance, it looks like a station, but once you get closer, you notice that there are no operators in the house, or upper part of the lift. Anyways, I got so excited when I reached the top of the mountain that I could not wait to go down. And just to let you know, I went with my dad. Even though I said that I could not wait to go down the mountain, I kind of got scared when I saw how steep the first part is. However, I said to myself that I can just go perpendicular to the direction down the mountain. After I got down the first part, it was much smoother, and less steeper. Then, I got to the part where it separates the terrain park and the rest of the way down the mountain. I decided that going down the former area was much more dangerous, and I was not ready for that yet, so I went on the other way. Also, my brother struck four accidents today, the first accident that happened was my brother fell down on his face and it made his cheek bleed very badly. Second of all, he fell down the slope even though there was string and poles holding blockading him. Third of all, he crashed into me. And fourth of all, he got beaten up by his father because he lied that he did his homework. 






20/01/2014


today was a normal school day. I woke up, got dressed, ate breakfast, and brushed my teeth. Today, my dad, me, and my brother had to go late because my mom had to cover the wound that my brother made while he was snowboarding. Anyways, we went like ten minutes late, maybe more, but for me, that is awfully late. When I was near the spot where my dad parks his car, I argued with him about whether I should bike or not. He finally won the argument, and I biked to school. At school, there was nothing awesome or spectacular that is worth telling. 


21/01/2014


Today was a normal day, just like and other days. I woke up, changed my clothes, and went downstairs to eat breakfast. I realized that breakfast for today was bread and jam, because we always eat that when my family does not have any leftover foods. When I looked at the clock, it read 7:45! we were supposed to leave the house at that time, and I was not even close to finishing by breakfast. I drank my milk, and got a container to carry my bread, cheese, and the other stuff that makes toast tasty. On the car, I was making my bread and eating it while my dad was driving the car. When I finally got to school, I went to the library and read some books. The rest of the day went normally, undisturbed by strange or surprising events. At the end of the day, we did catch-up time, a time where students can work on their homework at school, so they have less homework at home.