In the stone ages, the Natives had depended on their own knowledge to survive before the Industrial Revolution. Their life had been very hard, and sometimes boring in my perspective, or point of view. It was boring because all you do everyday is hunt, talk, and sleep. Does not that sound boring to you? However, I do not think that they think their life is very boring because they had many wonders, since the very basic stuff that we know now were not discovered by those Stone Age people. Moreover, I think that they had many worries ( tigers eating them, cold, et cetera). 


        I think that nowadays, people mainly depend on technology, not their own strengths to do hard things. One example is cleaning the house. Before vacuums came out, people use brooms and other devices to clean the house. However, that all changed when vacuums came out. They were strong machines that could clean the house in a matter of minutes. However, vacuums also have many advantages. One advantage that just mentioned is the speed. The people that did not have vacuums in their time was wasting their time using the broom while they were having work to do. Another advantage is that it cleans the house better. You could spend a lot of time using the broom, but the vacuum removes more dust than you would expect. Anyways, I am just saying that the technology that we have nowadays makes us dependent on it. I suggest and hope that humans will discover the importance of using your strengths and feats instead of technology. Also, people get less and less social if they use technology a lot, which is the smartphone. I have seen my dad getting more hooked onto phones recently. It is true that phones and smartphones are very useful, but humans must try to break the spell. However, some technology help us a lot in our lives, such as paper. Well, I am not even sure if paper is technology, but let’s just say that it is. Papers help businesses grow and students, or scholars, to learn. Without paper, I could not even imagine how life would be like. Also, another important invention is the computer. Just like paper, it helps businesses grow and boosts a student’s learning. 


Are we becoming more and more dependent on technology? Yes, I think so. Humans are getting unhealthier and unhealthier, as a result of technology and screen time. I wish that there was something that could separate humans from their beloved smartphones and get them exercising.