George Orwell, in his novel, 1984, on mass societal surveillance and government power uses the absent character “Emmanuel Goldstein” along with his rival “Big Brother.” These characters, while rarely appearing in person in the text, have a massive influence on the plot of the book and are central to the themes. These characters reinforce the idea of continuous surveillance, are central to the government’s goal of engaging the people, and symbolizes the power of the government.


Government surveillance, from the thought police to secret government agents such as the old man keeping the bookstore, are central throughout the novel. The omniscient nature of Big Brother and how Winston thinks of the fact that Big Brother might be watching him recurs throughout the book. Even when Big Brother is not there, he still remains a large presence and influences the plot. For example, when Winston went out with Julia through a complicated train route and arrived at an isolated clearing in a forest, we are still reminded of Big Brother and the couple is wary of his “watching” them. This omniscient nature of Big Brother reflects the mantra that the government is everywhere and always watching. 


Constant conflict, confusing oxymorons such as “War is Peace,” and the rivalry between Goldstein and Big Brother all give the people of the nation something to devote themselves toward. Having a continuous war allows the government to justify having excess resources. Daily prices and statistics published in the “newspaper” are completely made up by the Ministry of Truth, and serve as a point for the population’s attention. Incentivizing them to focus on made-up facts, imaginary war, and a conflict between the characters Big Brother and Goldstein saves the government from inspection by the population. The “Mad Minute,” where citizens sit in a room and find ways to express their anger at “Emmanuel Goldstein” is often dramatic, and is also an example of how the government tries to divert the population’s focus onto manufactured ideas. Big Brother along with Emmanuel Goldstein create a conflict for which citizens could exert their anger and put their efforts towards, instead of thinking about the government and its multitude of problems.


While the characters Big Brother and Emmanuel Goldstein only appear on the big screen in the few times of the “Mad Minute,” they symbolize the power of the governments of the country. Similar to how we only get a glimpse of these characters, the government is ambiguous in the text and little is known. Big Brother and Emmanuel Goldstein are portrayed as if they are a conflict too “high-level” for people not in the highest levels of government. We can never understand the nature of their conflict other than that Goldstein has “bad” ideas whereas Big Brother is committed to ensuring the population’s wellbeing. The ambiguity around Big Brother serves to keep the population from knowing the flaws of the scheme of Big Brother and his supposed rival Goldstein, while also captivating enough to deter them from thinking.


While Goldstein and Big Brother are both absent throughout the whole book, they exert a huge influence on the novel. As these characters reflect the omniscient nature of the government, are a source of the “eternal conflict,” and symbolize the power of government, they are important characters regardless of their frequency of appearances.