Compare and contrast traditional learning with online learning


Yesterday, I encountered a website that offered online tutoring. I wondered, “ Is online learning the same with traditional learning?” Although they are very different from each other, I noticed a few similarities between them. First, both kinds of courses cost money. In addition to that, traditional learning and online learning both give homework. However, their differences include the schedule and an Internet connection is required for online learning. Although both kinds of learning are similar in many ways as I have described above, they also have differences. 
In comparison, traditional learning and online learning have many similarities with each other. They both cost money, which is typical when attending additional classes or university classes. The amount of money is not very different most of the time; for example, my dad registered for my brother an online course that takes about 2 months to complete last year. Likewise, recently, my dad registered for my brother another 2 month course, and the price is almost the same. Furthermore, both kinds of courses give homework. Since homework is important to improve a student’s marks, giving homework is a must. Not only do both kinds of courses give homework, but they also give the same amount of homework. There are no reasons for either the traditional course or the online course to give a different amount of homework. Despite the importance of homework for student achievement, giving too much homework, according to the University of Stanford, actually decreases student achievement. Therefore, we should neither give too much homework nor give too less homework.
In spite of these similarities, learning online and learning the traditional way is different in many aspects. Traditional learning is based on a schedule that every student must follow in order to achieve maximum potential. The schedule indicates what time each student should come and should leave. However, in online learning, students have much more options and their schedule can vary. For example, my brother, who is taking an online course, signs in at least once every week to complete exercises and tests online. In contrast, my dad, who is taking a traditional course, must follow a very tight schedule. Moreover, online learning requires a stable Internet connection whereas traditional learning does not. This can be inconvenient for some people because they do not have an Internet connection or a computer. Fortunately, they have the option of traditional classes if they want to learn more or attend a class. In brief, although traditional learning and online  learning are similar in many ways, they are also different in many aspects. 
Traditional and online learning have a few similarities. First, they both give homework. Secondly, not only do they