Do we value things that we only struggle for?


        There are many things in the world that many people want but do not have, and that many people have, but they do not care about. The value of everything in the world is determined not by its value, but the personality or recognition of each individual person. The value of each thing is different for each and every person in Earth, there cannot be a universal value for one thing. People also get their personal items a variety of different ways. Some people struggle for it for years and decades before they get the thing that they wanted, but some things just automatically come into other people’s hand without them even thinking about it for the slightest millisecond. Many people often value things that other people don’t even think about when they receive it, and that is because they don’t struggle to get that thing, but others do.
        Rich people have more resources and things than poor people. Therefore, they don’t put as much value into each individual thing as much as poor people put into their things. Not long ago, we, our family, met another family during our vacation on Hawaii. That family is very rich, they had huge houses overlooking the beach and awesome technology in almost every part of their home, such as a huge TV and several high quality computers. Anyways, they warmly welcomed us into their house, and they gave us almost everything we needed, giant bedrooms, beautiful baths, and even a trip to the movie theatre. Should I have been the host of a stay, I would never have spent that much money and resources on accommodating one single family. My family would have given them a small room, with not many trips to paid attractions, but rather a lot of free ones. Despite our surprise at their hospitality in our stay, they never asked us to give them anything in return. They did not recognize how much we value each individual trip and ticket to paid attractions or large bedrooms; we were used to sleeping in cruder houses and being in free attractions that had long line-ups.