Do we value things that we only struggle for?


        There are many things in the world that many people want but do not have, and that many people have, but they do not care about. The value of everything in the world is determined not by its value, but the personality or recognition of each individual person. The value of each thing is different for each and every person in Earth, there cannot be a universal value for one thing. People also get their personal items a variety of different ways. Some people struggle for it for years and decades before they get the thing that they wanted, but some things just automatically come into other people’s hand without them even thinking about it for the slightest millisecond. Many people often value things that other people don’t even think about when they receive it, and that is because they don’t struggle to get that thing, but others do.
        Rich people have more resources and things than poor people. Therefore, they don’t put as much value into each individual thing as much as poor people put into their things. Not long ago, we, our family, met another family during our vacation on Hawaii. That family is very rich, they had huge houses overlooking the beach and awesome technology in almost every part of their home, such as a huge TV and several high quality computers. Anyways, they warmly welcomed us into their house, and they gave us almost everything we needed, giant bedrooms, beautiful baths, and even a trip to the movie theatre. Should I have been the host of a stay, I would never have spent that much money and resources on accommodating one single family. My family would have given them a small room, with not many trips to paid attractions, but rather a lot of free ones. Despite our surprise at their hospitality in our stay, they never asked us to give them anything in return. They did not recognize how much we value each individual trip and ticket to paid attractions or large bedrooms; we were used to sleeping in cruder houses and being in free attractions that had long line-ups. We struggled to receive those luxuries because they were simply too expensive
        Some things cannot get even a second thought from a group of people, which some people spend their days and nights dreaming about the same thing. This is because the act of retrieving that item or thing is so easy for rich people. Most of the time, they don’t even know that they have retrieved it, like Bill Gates, a billionaire and founder of Microsoft. He does not even know the individual cents of money he is receiving each second, nor does he even care about the individual items he has. It is natural for normal humans to not appreciate the simple things, the things that we don’t have to struggle to get. My friend Nicky just got his $1000 dollar telescope the day before yesterday. He valued it very much, and banned everyone in the room from touching it or being near it less than 30 centimeters. He acted like that was his chest of diamonds, but just too big to put in a safe or somewhere else safe such as the bedroom or something. However, a scientist or professional astronomer that does this for a job may not value it very much, and may leave it out to the garage to freeze up and deteriorate because he does not need a use for it. 
Without the struggle, without the hardness and the days of dreaming, without the fight, we will not value for things we received without trying. In the end, the answer is always yes, our happiness, our value for each individual item in our life, depends on how much we care for it, how much struggle it takes to receive that thing. We have to open our eyes, look hard within ourselves and our world, and realize the fact that simple things can even change our happiness or sadness drastically.