Many times, people will reach for success, and will dedicate their whole life towards finding success. It is the core and fruit of humanity, something we all strive to do. In addition, the associations which come to our minds are usually positive, but never negative. We should take time, however, to reconsider our opinions about the success. It may not be at all positive or beneficial to ourselves, and may in fact be even detrimental. Succeeding in bad things can be detrimental as well as being too arrogant about ourselves and our successes. 
        One of the many ways that success can be bad for us is when we are succeeding in the wrong subject or thing. The more we succeed, the more we are carried down further into the road of doing bad things. There are many examples of this _--_ my brother’s friend Ashley Michael was very good at eating junk food and therefore, he was really and very and really fat. In fact, he was so fat that he could barely get in through our small door that I could very EASILY get in. 
        Too much success in a row can also have many disadvantages. In the case of many people, it makes them arrogant and think that they are very good. When we have so many successes in a row, it makes us try less, because when we succeed, we think our abilities are higher, and therefore we have to try less to achieve the same thing. However, as we slowly decrease and decrease, one day, we will fail, and the more we have succeeded, the more devastating the consequences will be. For example, my brother’s friend Ashymashlets was having very much success with his programming career-he encounter no problems(yet). However, he had the wrong representation of himself when he failed, so he was very depressed for a few days. 
        As you can see, success is a very important factor in life. It determines and guides us most of the way throughout our life. Nonetheless, it still generates a lot of confusion for some people, as sometimes, one think success is good, but sometimes, another one or another person thinks success is bad. As a right person and a good person with good conscience, we should be able to differentiate between whether a type of success is bad or good.