Communication has always been part of human needs. Now, we have very efficient ways to deliver someone messages and other stuff, such as clothes or presents. Many countries have their own postal services, that delivers stuff if you give money to them. In other words, they sale tickets, and you have to pay money to buy the tickets so that they can deliver for you. I wish that there are some non-profit organization that delivers small packages or letters free. In this case, it is Canada Posts for my country. However, email is taking up part of communication. Email has disadvantages and advantages. I hope you enjoy it.
   The internet community is growing and growing, as more residents are connected to high-speed Internet as if the Internet was food. Also, there are more and more websites on the network too. I do not know when this have happened, but I think that someone smart thought of the idea of sending letters and messages through the Internet, so they set up a system. At first, there are small users of the webpage, but as it grows bigger, than the owner has to set up accounts and passwords, to avoid hacking. Before I realized that there are disadvantages of email, I had thought that it was pretty cool, but I think that some users overused it, and that is where the disadvantages of email happen. First, some people get addicted to it and overuse it. Second, hackers can easily hack other’s emails, which has a risk of you being the victim of the hack. However, if there was an ultimate hacker on this planet, I would rather pay it a lot of money to build an anti hacking program than put it in jail. Third, I do not think that socializing by email is better than going out to the real world, because you can breath fresh air, and do other things that you cannot do. However, email does not use up wood, since papers and letters are made up of trees, and trees are made up of wood. In addition, I am thinking that our world is kind of short on wood, so we would like to save it. Also, paper mails take a long time to reach to it’s receiver, especially if the other person is on the other half of the Earth. 


I think that some people are overusing the Internet to do things, and not doing exercises like running, sports, and many more at all. I also said in some other writing that humans are getting fatter and lazier everyday. I think that email is the case, or I should say Internet is the case. 
While I was living in a rented house many years ago, I was having no Internet, but I have Internet now.