Erak’s ransom is a very good book that I think everyone should read. Erak’s ransom is the seventh book in the Ranger’s Apprentice series. First of all, Will is the main character under the apprenticeship of Halt, a very famous ranger. Before Will was even under the apprenticeship of Halt, he thought that he would go to battle school. Battle school teaches people how to fight if there is a war. Will imagines himself on a battle horse fighting off enemies. However, when he tried to apply, the battle school master considered Will undersized. As a result, he have to apply for Ranger’s Apprentice. If Will was taller, he would go to battle school. 


        While Halt and Lady Pauline were preparing for their marriage the upcoming day, Halt was realizing that there were too many people attending the marriage. Anyways, since the problem could not be fixed, Halt and Lady Pauline continued on with the marriage. Meanwhile, the skandians came and told them that Erak have been captured in Arridi while he was raiding. Then Will, Halt, Evanlyn, Gilan, Horace, and a few soldiers went to Arridi to negotiate the ransom. Then, after negotiating, they headed across the dessert to find Erak. While they were travelling, they encountered a sandstorm. After the sandstorm, Will could not find Tug, so he headed out on his own to find Tug. However, before he headed out, Selethen had given Will a map of the dessert containing landmarks. However, as Will headed out, his North seeker( an old term for compass) did not work as a result of the large iron deposits. He suffered greatly, and he lost water. I would rather get more water than to leave with just two sacks of water. After the thought that he might die, the Bedullin rescued him and his horse, Tug. Will went to the Bedullin’s camp. 


Halt found vultures near the road. Halt thought that the dangerous desert tribe, the Blue Veiled Riders or the Forgottens of God, killed the party that was leading Erak towards Mororac. So Halt tracked which direction the tribes were going, and went towards that direction. After a few days, they were finally travelling parallel with the desert group. In the night, Halt sent Gilan towards the camp to see their progress. When Gilan reported back, he saw a figure moving in the camp as if they had seen him. Anyways, the next morning, the desert tribe attacked their camp, which they defended sufficiently. However, the attack reduced their numbers. The next morning, the desert tribe attacked again, which they did not defended sufficiently. As a result, they got captured, and tortured as well. 


Will realized that his friends were going to get killed, so he teamed up with the Bedullin to rescue them. At the execution day, Will shot down the executioner. Then, the bedullin troops attacked the desert tribe, and won! I wish the book continued on further. 


I hope that John Flanagon will be writing more Ranger’s Apprentice books.