Henry Nguyen
Grade 5
A Visit to a Friend’s House
A visit to a friend’s house is always fun for kids and parents. We have visited my mother’s friend, who have studied with my mom in university, frequently. Normally, we would visit my mother’s friend’s house late in the night when we are travelling home from the US. As a result of the fact that our house is very far away from my relative’s house, which is in the US, we would do things such as shop or play in the US and visit her house for the late night. However, there was one time where we visited my mother’s friend for a New Year’s party. At first, I thought it wouldn’t be that fun. However, the New Year’s party was very fun, some of the memorable parts were the games that we play, the dinner that we ate, and the colorful party stuff that were in the house. 
In the game I played with my friends at a relative’s house last year, I felt nothing, I saw nothing, but I could feel nothing but the small wind as people dodged out of my way. My eyes were useless now. I have been the chaser, or in other words, the slender man. I could feel nothing but the air whiz through my sides. I also felt that I could bump and crush my nose into something, such as a chair or a wall, any time. I tried desperately to catch someone with my hands, but as usual, I feared that extending my hands to full length would knock something over. Finally, I managed to touch someone’s shirt; how good it felt to be released into the real world. In brief, although playing the game as the runners/dodgers from the chaser was fun, being the slender man was not fun at all.
In addition to the fun at the party, the food was very delicious. Mothers from all over North America made and brought their food to this very party. I enjoy my mom’s foods very much, but sometimes a variety or trying a new type of food is very pleasing. Vietnamese adults are always the same. Whenever they got a chance to talk, even in the bathrooms, they use that chance. Likewise, adults here were talking rapidly, another one talking a millisecond after one adult has finished. Therefore, it seemed as if the loud voices had been everywhere. Furthermore, the whole dining room had a Vietnamese foods smell to it, because the foods were made by Vietnamese mothers. However, the smell was way different at the children’s table. Candies and sugary treats dominated the air so that wherever I go, I could always smell a little or a strong sense of candy smell. In general, the Vietnamese foods that mothers made were very delicious; also, the adults at the dining table were talking rapidly.
The house in which we were feasting and partying in was decorated with ribbons and party posters. I was so relieved and delighted to be out of the car once we arrived at our relative’s house in Seattle. When I came into the house, I was surprised by the new look of the house. It looked also more tidier and cleaner by my first impressions. I came into the house and set forward to find my other friends that were already here. Colourful ribbons hung from the ceiling, and the house looked as if it had been cleaned a dozen times recently. The organization of furniture in the house was also different. They, the owners, removed some stuff, added some stuff, and moved some stuff. In general, I think the house looks better after they renovated it.
After the party was over, I was sad. I went out of the house and sat in my car, I almost wanted to sleep, but I didn’t. I wanted to see that colorful displays, feel that air whiz around me when I am playing, and taste that food mothers brought all over again. Still, I knew the party was over, and there was no going back in time and experiencing those wonderful moments again. In summary, the highlights of the trip was the food, the games, and the house itself.