King Lear’s hamartia is his overwhelming need for others to proclaim their admiration of him, as well as his rash nature that compels him to do things like banishing Cordelia. The first notion of King Lear’s character comes in the very beginning of the play, where he demands his daughters to contest additional territory by showing how much they love him. What happens, rather, is that words take precedence over actual love in the two elder daughters, Goneril and Regan. 


In many of the scenes, King Lear’s emotions dominate his actions and banishes those who are truly loyal, as although they (Cordelia and Kent) were truly loyal to him, they had failed to capture his emotions. King Lear only realizes this after the two elder sisters have taken advantage of his malleable nature, and regret and heartbreak overwhelm him into insanity. 


The theme of valuing the smallest things even in prosperous times appears multiple times in the story, and this is perhaps a flaw of King Lear too—the fact that he only values what is said presently rather than what is done over a long time. 


King Lear’s children, with the exception of Cordelia, are greedy and disloyal, both to their husbands and father. This behaviour cannot be framed and attributed to their antagonistic nature, however, as one could argue Lear had acted in the same manner towards his own daughter, and likewise, his two daughters would act the same towards him when they had more power. 


One also gets a sense of how blind Lear is to long lasting loyalty and love in lieu of a few words and praises. This hamartia is the same Gloucester’s, in that both are totally naive to their own children’s interior motives. In Act I, Edmund fools Gloucester with a fabricated letter, and Gloucester, blinded by his fit of anger, purely assumes that the letter is Edgar’s through his handwriting. While Gloucester lacks the rash and short-tempered nature of King Lear, he still lacks the awareness that his prosperity and stability might all crumble if he makes the wrong move, like supporting the falling King Lear. 


Quotes: 
“How sharper than a serpent’s tooth it is/To have a thankless child.” (King Lear, 1.4)
This quote, among many others, summarizes King Lear’s rashful nature. It also emphasizes the importance Lear had thought of filial relationships, ironically in lieu of the quickness in which Lear banished his daughter for saying the truth.


“Take that of me, my friend, who have the power
To seal th' accuser’s lips. Get thee glass eyes,
And like a scurvy politician seem
To see the things thou dost not.” (King Lear 4.6)


This quote comes when King Lear is at his lowest state, and reflect many of the plots that have brought down Lear and Gloucester.