My Vacation
I was finally going to be on a vacation! This was my first summer vacation ever in my life. Finally, I had something to share when my teacher asked what did I do on the summer. Normally, I would say stay at home, but this was a different and way better summer. We were going to Southern California to visit our relatives and also play. I heard that there were many fun attractions in California such as Disneyland, Hollywood and Seaworld, and my dad said that we would go to all of these places. Finally, it was the day that we would board the airplane. 
On the first day of our vacation, we paced around the city to explore it. It was not much fun until the second day, where we got to Universal Studios, where they make movies. There were two parts to it. The first part was where all of the fun and the scary things were. Then, the second part was where they took us on two tours around the studio and explain each part of it. The second part had a huge line, so we decided to go to the first part. My favorite thing in there was the Haunted House. At first when I first entered there, I thought that it would just show some scary skulls and it would be over. However, it was totally unexpected. Once, a man or woman dressed like a ghost jumped out at me. However, the scariest part was where a man with a chainsaw hauling it crazily around. Then, my family and I went out of the haunted house. After a while, my dad and I thought that there was enough scary things today, so we lined up and went for the tour. During the tour, they showed us a fake bomb exploding, which sent a plastic car flying. 
The very next day, we went to Disneyland. I was very excited because this was my first time there and I heard my classmates say that going to Disneyland was a very fun experience for them. First, we were confused about the line ups. One was buying tickets and the other one was checking tickets. We were neither of those because we had bought a combo Southern California attractions card, so we just went to the checking tickets line. Fortunately, we were right and they let us in. First, we took some pictures, but after that, we went on to see the attractions. My favorite ones were the scary ones. However, most of the rides were just tours. 
After a few more days of sightseeing, we boarded the return flight back to Bellingham. I was both sad and happy at the same time. I was sad because we did not see all of the attractions in Southern California, yet, we were already leaving! However, I was happy because I could finally have something else to say when my teacher asked what did I do for the summer other than staying at home. It was also the funnest vacation I had because it was my first one.