My Vacation
I was finally going to be on a vacation! This was my first summer vacation. At last, I would have something to share when my teacher asked what I did during the break. Normally, I would say that I stayed at home, but this was a different and better summer. We were going to Southern California to visit our relatives and also play. I heard that there were many fun and anomalic attractions in California such as Disneyland, Hollywood and Seaworld, and my dad said that we would go to all of these places. Finally, it was the day that we would board the airplane. 
On the first day, we paced around LA to explore it. It was not much fun until the second day, where we arrived at Universal Studios, where they make movies. There were two parts to it. The first was where all of the fun and scary things were. The second part was where they took us on two tours around the studio and explained each part of it, but there was a huge line, so we decided to go to the first part. My favorite thing was the Haunted House. when I entered there, I thought that it would just show some scary skulls and cacophony music. However, it was totally unexpected. Once, a man or woman dressed like a ghost jumped out at me. However, the scariest part was where a man with a chainsaw hauling it crazily around in a baleful forest setting. Then, my family and I went out of the haunted house. I just realized that most of the scariest things in the haunted house were all chimeras. After a while, we thought that there was enough scary things today, so we lined up and went for the tour. During the tour, they showed us a fake bomb exploding, which sent a plastic car flying. Also, the loud and the arrantly apposite sound aggrandized the effect.
The very next day, we went to Disneyland. I was very excited because this was my first time there and I had heard my classmates say that visiting Disneyland was a very fun experience for them. First, we were confused about the line-ups. One was buying tickets and the other one was checking. We belonged to neither of those because we had bought a Southern California attractions card, so we just went to the tickets checking line. The card had an alloy of attractions to see in California, and it offered a huge discount because we had bought the card before the date of use. Fortunately, we were right and they let us in. First, we took some pictures, but after that, we went on to see the attractions. My favorite rides were the scary ones. However, most of the other rides were just tours. Also, the weekend and the commotion of the place adulterated the fun because sometimes, I would get lost in a crowd and it was very hard to move around. In the end, we went to an archaic pirate ship and looked around. There was no interactivity, so it did not interest 
After a few more days of sightseeing, we boarded the return flight back to Bellingham. I was both sad and happy at the same time. I was sad because we did not see all of the attractions in Southern California, yet, we were already leaving! However, I was happy because I could finally have something else to say when my teacher asked what did I do for the summer other than staying at home. It was also the funnest vacation I had because it was my first one.