3 hours of fear


Ideas


“Daddy, why do they want to deport Abdul? Does that mean I can’t play with him anymore?”


9 year old Johnny and his father, Kurt, were on the couch, fulfilling the 3 mandatory hours of television instated by the government. The 3 hours were for the public to be informed, and the government recommended for the TV to be watched right after work. Johnny’s dad loved the TV. Johnny would hear the muffled sounds of the TV right after his dad got home from work, and all the way until late night. 


“To solve BIG problems, we need BIG solutions. Just changing 2 words in the law will not give Americans back their home,” the candidate paused. “We need a Wall now! There is no time for civility and democracy when the people are on the streets!” The crowd’s roar raised to match the candidate’s yell. The other candidate replied, “Muslims and immigrants are not the prob—” but was met with the crowd’s boo, a deafening display of disapproval. He tried again, “The Times reports that 96% of the murders in our country are caused by white people, not immigrants. These—” the other candidate interrupted him, “What are you talking about? People are dying and you,” he pointed accusingly at the other candidate, “have the time to recite obscure numbers?” The camera panned towards the crowd chanting “Build the Wall!”


The screen rolled back to the news anchor. 
“These Muslims, they are bringing their guns. They are bringing their rapists, murderers, and terrorists into America. Our streets will be infested with drugs and guns and terrorists and Muslims. Build the Wall now, Save America From Disaster,” the news anchor spoke, a horrific video of a plane hitting a tower in New York 50 years ago in the background.
Johnny was scared and fatigued. [a]He thought back to his Muslim friend, Abdul. 
“Why are the Muslims in our country,” Johnny thought, struggling to keep his eyelids up, “they are the reason why we are not living in a bigger house.” 
“Why was Abdul even my friend,” Johnny thought back to when they shot each other with finger guns. 
“I should be ashamed of myself.” He tried to find of reasons of why he had been such good friends with Abdul, but he found none through the irresistible rhetoric of the TV anchor.
        Johnny’s dad loved watching the TV, because it confirmed his feelings towards immigrants. It also provided a break from a long day’s work, and provided a channel to release his stored-up anger. Kurt blamed the Muslims and the “illegals,” as he liked to call them, for stealing his jobs and benefits. Everywhere he went, he would fear a terrorist attack, so much so that Kurt would never go to movie theatres—he thought they were too confined and were a perfect spot for terrorist attacks. Although he had never seen an immigrant on his job and had never witnessed a terrorist attack, seeing the dangers on TV was enough. After all, that was why the government made everybody to watch 3 hours everyday: to be informed about events faraway.


        “Jobs and salaries are steadily decreasing after swarms of illegal immigrants steal jobs from our people. Some Americans, unable to find a job, have been living on the streets, as immigrants from the South and beyond rise to take our opportunities away. Several cities are already experiencing slow economic growth and record high unemployment rates as unskilled immigrants flood the job market. This is Lily Parker for Cox Cable News. Next up after this commercial break will be a replay of the historic 9/11 attack conducted by radical Muslim terrorists. Will your city be their next target?”


        Johnny glanced at the clock. 30 more minutes of television. As much as Johnny would have liked to ignore the mandatory 3 hours of television, the memory was still fresh in his mind. He had been caught before.
        Johnny liked reading the Times newspaper. The small, uniform letters and numbers were a sharp contrast to the lurid magazines. The magazines Kurt enjoyed had big, bold, red titles and horrific images strewn across the pages. 
        Johnny slogged towards his room right as the timer hit zero, but not without his dad’s menacing stare. A stack of Cox News tabloids sat neatly on Johnny’s desk. The first tabloid, published a year ago, was covered in a thin layer of dust, had a headline that read “DEADLY 2013 BOSTON BOMBING COULD HAPPEN AGAIN IN YOUR CITY” in big, red, letters. The other tabloids in the stack were pristine; they were just for show. That was not Johnny’s target. Instead, he headed directly for his bed, pulled a crinkled Times out from under his pillow, and began reading.
        Although Johnny couldn’t understand most of the words, the simple uniformity and blandness of the Times was enough to soothe his anxiety. The monotone of the black words and the simple images still captivated little Johnny, and reassured him about the implausibility of an impending terrorist attack. 
        Downstairs, Kurt was still enthralled on the TV. 
“Today, we hope to replay footage of 9/11 to commemorate this horrific attack by Muslim extremists on American soil. These Muslims have already been taking over our jobs, our industry, and our country. We hope to replay this footage to remind the American people of the dangers if we do not have a Border Wall. 
[September 11, 2001 - 8:47 AM ET]
And here, we have just had reports that a plane has crashed into the World Trade Center. Something obviously disastrous has happened to the World Trade Center here in New York…”
A clip of a plane crashing into one of the World Trade Centers was played on the TV screen. Though Kurt had seen this clip so many times—it was almost played daily on television—fear still managed to creep in, and along with it, came anger. 
        Kurt had always despised his son’s behavior. Johnny would do only the very least of his democratic responsibility of reserving 3 hours daily to get informed. It almost seemed as if Johnny would spend the 3 hours not watching the television, but rather watching the clock. Kurt saw that after Johnny would always retreat back to his room after he had fulfilled the 3 hours. Kurt shook his head, as he thought about how the other kids would beg to watch more TV, Johnny was the opposite: TV was like a chore. 
        “I’ve had enough of this,” Kurt decided, “This will be the day I right my son into a democratic citizen.” With an unusual determination for someone who was generally reluctant to get off the couch, Kurt started for Johnny’s room.
        Johnny lay across his bed, still engrossed in the Times magazine. 
        “This Border Wall proposal is rapidly gaining ground within the American political system. More than half of the politicians are ready to defend its weaknesses and expound upon its strengths. Broadcast media is also exploiting people’s decade-old anxieties about terrorist attacks long gone, by essentially replaying videos of terrorist attacks around 50 years ago. One has to ask the question of ‘Why aren’t there videos of more recent terrorist attacks instead,’ to understand that television’s only purpose is to stir up decade-old fear.”
        The door banged open. A wave of cold air swept over Johnny. He flicked his eyes to the doorway where his dad stood. The Times magazine was still in Johnny’s hands, unfettered by Kurt’s unwavering look of disgust and anger. 
        “Why are you reading that?” Kurt said. He stormed further into the room, the floorboards creaking under the weight of his feet. Kurt snatched the magazine with one hand. With the other hand, he slapped his son across the face.
        “I thought I had taught you about fake news!” Kurt said, flicking the tattered magazine onto the floor. When Kurt looked at his son’s face again, he felt guilty and began to sympathize. 
“Is it Abdul again?” Kurt asked sympathetically. 
“I told you to not play with him, didn’t I?” Kurt smiled down at his son, his original frustration and anger gone. 
“What did he do to you?” Kurt picked up the Times magazine on the floor, and ripped it in half before dropping it down the trash.
“Here, come with me.” Kurt lead Johnny by the hand towards the living room, where the TV was situated.
“Maybe it was a 300 passenger commercial plane that crashed into the World Trade Center. It is too early to start speculating whether it is a terrorist attack or simply due to pilot error, as the main flight ‘path’ is a few miles away from the World Trade Center. 
It would seem very unlikely that a pilot would miss such a large landmark like the World Trade Center, and then crash into it head on. 
Oh My God. A second plane has hit the other World Trade Center.”
Johnny sat down, next to his dad, watching the TV. Johnny’s face was still flush red with embarrassment. 
The magazine was a taboo, not only in Johnny’s family, but also in his school. The students and teachers would engage daily in a Times mocking ensemble. 
“What would everybody call me now?” Johnny teemed with worry. “Traitor? Fascist? Anarchist?”
“What would my dad tell the others?”
The warm embrace of his dad had convinced Johnny otherwise, and Johnny began to tune into the TV.
“Millions of Americans are being forced onto the streets, as immigrants take over their homes. However rich and poor the immigrants are, it seems as if they have a higher priority in housing than native white people. The rich already have enough money to kick us onto the streets, and the poor have the backing of numerous government programs. 
However, the Border Wall is the first step towards ensuring a fair world for all people, not just immigrants. The overwhelming success of the Border Wall proposal is a good sign—it is a sign that the government is willing to acknowledge the millions of our people living on the streets.
The illegal immigrants, most of them Muslim, coming from the Middle East are also destroying our America. From the World Trade Center to the Boston Bombing, these events have been the mark of an amalgamation of inferior terrorists with our culture, resulting in the crisis of homelessness and poverty. Save America from disaster. Build the Wall.”
Johnny was confused. The TV had proved everything he had known wrong. He looked up at his dad’s reassuring face.
“Daddy, when will they build the Wall?”


A world where everybody watches television
TV is fear mongering/ sensational
Politics is like boxing match — people come not to get information but for entertainment


Story of a “normal man” with a clever child 
Man goes to watch sensational TV everyday after long day of work — makes him susceptible to any “propaganda” the government gives.


Government makes people watch TV right after work, in the evening, so they are tired and are more susceptible to fear mongering, propaganda, they think less for themselves


Set in a time of an election, show presidential debate: roasting, punching, fighting, not talking about politics, and crowd cheering. Exactly like a boxing match. Narrator very excited to go.
In the end- learned nothing about the 2 candidates. 
Show 2 candidates: one loud, boisterous, proposing big, grand solutions (like the Wall), while the other is more reserved, proposing small solutions
Crowd cheering for big solutions
Some motto that they keep chanting






Comes home to watch TV 
Hears reports of migrants coming in floods—TV
Gets mad—wants a wall
Close-minded
Hates the migrants even more
        Very tired — listens and absorbs what fear/anger TV gives


The Times
Reports facts, numbers
Headline that contradicts with his view (e.g. Border wall budget even higher), (Police are searching the wrong group of people), 
I threw the paper down in disgust. Who’d bother to read the dreary Times articles when we’d have the Border Wall to protect us?


The son
        Beginning—doubts the border wall (dialogue—utter stupidity of the border wall)
                Portray child as very clever, see pasts sensationalism and drama
        Reads the Times, gets scolded by his dad (narrator) for reading something pointless
        Dad makes him watch TV.


End: 
Some quotes from TV about immigrants coming in, guns, drugs, …
Gets scared
Narrator says don’t be scared, border wall will be built.






[a]transitions. not coherent