3 hours of fear


Ideas


“Daddy, why do they want to deport Abdul? Does that mean I can’t play with him anymore?”


9 year old Johnny and his father, Kurt, were on the couch, fulfilling the 3 mandatory hours of television instated by the government. The 3 hours were for the public to be informed, and the government recommended for the TV to be watched right after work. Johnny’s dad loved the TV. Johnny would hear the muffled sounds of the TV right after his dad got home from work, and all the way until late night. 


“To solve BIG problems, we need BIG solutions. Just changing 2 words in the law will not give Americans back their home,” the candidate paused. “We need a Wall now! There is no time for civility and democracy when the people are on the streets!” The crowd’s roar raised to match the candidate’s yell. The other candidate replied, “Muslims and immigrants are not the prob—” but was met with the crowd’s boo, a deafening display of disapproval. He tried again, “The Times reports that 96% of the murders in our country are caused by white people, not immigrants. These—” the other candidate interrupted him, “What are you talking about? People are dying and you,” he pointed accusingly at the other candidate, “have the time to recite obscure numbers?” The camera panned towards the crowd chanting “Build the Wall!”


The screen rolled back to the news anchor. 
“These Muslims, they are bringing their guns. They are bringing their rapists, murderers, and terrorists into America. Our streets will be infested with drugs and guns and terrorists and Muslims. Build the Wall now, Save America From Disaster,” the news anchor spoke, a horrific video of a plane hitting a tower in New York 50 years ago in the background.
Johnny thought back to his Muslim friend, Abdul. Johnny was scared, and coupled with the sweltering heat of the evening, he was fatigued. 
“Why are the Muslims in our country,” Johnny struggled to keep his eyelids up. “We should have lived in a bigger house.” Johnny resigned and closed his eyes. “It’s only because of them.” “Why was Abdul even my friend,” Johnny thought back to when they shot each other with finger guns. 
“I should be ashamed of myself.” He tried to find of reasons of why he had been such good friends with Abdul, but he found none through the rhetoric of the news anchor.
Images of Abdul and his family in their new house—the house Johnny was supposed to be in—flashed before his eyes as he drifted off to sleep.


        “Jobs and salaries are steadily decreasing after swarms of illegal immigrants steal jobs from our people. Some Americans, unable to find a job, have been living on the streets, as immigrants from the South and beyond rise to take our opportunities away. Several cities are already experiencing slow economic growth and record high unemployment rates as unskilled immigrants flood the job market. This is Lily Parker for Cox Cable News. Next up after this commercial break will be a replay of the historic 9/11 attack conducted by radical Muslim terrorists. Will your city be their next target?”


        Johnny glanced at the clock. 30 more minutes of television. As much as Johnny would have liked to ignore the mandatory 3 hours of television, the memory was still fresh in his mind. He had been caught before.
        Johnny liked reading the Times newspaper. The small, uniform letters and numbers were a sharp contrast to the lurid magazines. The magazines Kurt enjoyed had big, bold, red titles and horrific images strewn across the pages. 
        Johnny slogged towards his room right as the timer hit zero, but not without his dad’s menacing stare. A stack of Cox News tabloids sat neatly on Johnny’s desk. The first tabloid, published a year ago, was covered in a thin layer of dust, had a headline that read “DEADLY 2013 BOSTON BOMBING COULD HAPPEN AGAIN IN YOUR CITY” in big, red, letters. The other tabloids in the stack were pristine; they were just for show. That was not Johnny’s target. Instead, he headed directly for his bed, pulled a crinkled Times out from under his pillow, and began reading.
        Although Johnny couldn’t understand most of the words, the simple uniformity and blandness of the Times was enough to soothe his anxiety. The monotone of the black words and the simple images still captivated little Johnny, and reassured him about the implausibility of an impending terrorist attack. 
        Downstairs, Kurt was still enthralled on the TV. 
“Today, we hope to replay footage of 9/11 to commemorate this horrific attack by Muslim extremists on American soil. These Muslims have already been taking over our jobs, our industry, and our country. We hope to replay this footage to remind the American people of the dangers if we do not have a Border Wall. 
[September 11, 2001 - 8:47 AM ET]
And here, we have just had reports that a plane has crashed into the World Trade Center. Something obviously disastrous has happened to the World Trade Center here in New York…”
A clip of a plane crashing into one of the World Trade Centers was played on the TV screen. Though Kurt had seen this clip so many times—it was almost played daily on television—fear still managed to creep in, and along with it, came anger. 
        Kurt had always despised his son’s behavior. Johnny would do only the very least of his democratic responsibility of reserving 3 hours daily to get informed. It almost seemed as if Johnny would spend the 3 hours not watching the television, but rather watching the clock. Kurt saw that after Johnny would always retreat back to his room after he had fulfilled the 3 hours. Kurt shook his head, as he thought about how the other kids would beg to watch more TV, Johnny was the opposite: TV was like a chore. 
        “I’ve had enough of this,” Kurt decided, “This will be the day I right my son into a democratic citizen.” With an unusual determination for someone who was generally reluctant to get off the couch, Kurt started for Johnny’s room.
        Johnny lay across his bed, still engrossed in the Times magazine. 
        “This Border Wall proposal is rapidly gaining ground within the American political system. More than half of the politicians are ready to defend its weaknesses and expound upon its strengths. Broadcast media is also exploiting people’s decade-old anxieties about terrorist attacks long gone, by essentially replaying videos of terrorist attacks around 50 years ago. One has to ask the question of ‘Why aren’t there videos of more recent terrorist attacks instead,’ to understand that television’s only purpose is to stir up decade-old fear.”
        The door banged open. A wave of cold air swept over Johnny. He flicked his eyes to the doorway where his dad stood. The Times magazine was still in Johnny’s hands, unfettered by Kurt’s unwavering look of disgust and anger. 
        “Why are you reading that?” Kurt stormed into the room. Snatching the magazine away with one hand, Kurt used his other hand to slap his son.
        “I thought I had taught you about fake news!” Kurt shouted, flicking the tattered magazine onto the floor. Kurt looked back at his son’s face. Through the guilty face, Kurt saw his son’s large watery eyes, and immediately regretted his outburst.
“Is it Abdul again?” Kurt held his son in a warm embrace.
“I told you to not play with him, didn’t I?” Kurt smiled down at his son, his original frustration and anger gone. 
“What did he do to you?” Kurt said.
“Here, come with me.” Kurt lead Johnny to the TV in the living room.
“Maybe it was a 300 passenger commercial plane that has exploded into the World Trade Center. It is too early to start speculating whether it is a terrorist attack or simply due to pilot error, as the main flight ‘path’ is a few miles away from the World Trade Center. 
It would seem very unlikely that a pilot would miss such a large landmark.
Oh My God. A second plane has hit the other tower.”
Johnny sat next to his dad, watching the TV. Johnny’s face was still flush red with embarrassment. 
The Times was a taboo, not only in his dad’s eyes, but also in Johnny’s school. The students and teachers would engage daily in a Times mocking ensemble. 
“What would everybody call me now?” Johnny teemed with worry. “Traitor? Rebel? Anarchist?”
“What would my dad tell the others?”
The warm embrace of his dad had convinced Johnny otherwise, and he focused on the TV.
“Almost 2 million Americans have been displaced onto the streets by Muslim immigrants, and that number is expected to rise if immigration still continues at this rate.
However, the Border Wall is the first step towards ensuring we have our property and our housess back. The overwhelming success of the Border Wall proposal in the Congress and the Senate  is a good sign—a sign that the government is willing to acknowledge the millions of our people living on the streets.
The illegal immigrants, most of them Muslim, coming from the Middle East are also destroying our America. From the World Trade Center to the Boston Bombing, these events have been the mark of an amalgamation of inferior terrorists with our culture, resulting in the crisis of homelessness and poverty. Save America from disaster. Build the Wall.”
Johnny was confused. The TV had proved everything he had known wrong. Johnny, looking up at his dad’s reassuring face, asked “Daddy, when will they build the Wall?”


A world where everybody watches television
TV is fear mongering/ sensational
Politics is like boxing match — people come not to get information but for entertainment


Story of a “normal man” with a clever child 
Man goes to watch sensational TV everyday after long day of work — makes him susceptible to any “propaganda” the government gives.


Government makes people watch TV right after work, in the evening, so they are tired and are more susceptible to fear mongering, propaganda, they think less for themselves


Set in a time of an election, show presidential debate: roasting, punching, fighting, not talking about politics, and crowd cheering. Exactly like a boxing match. Narrator very excited to go.
In the end- learned nothing about the 2 candidates. 
Show 2 candidates: one loud, boisterous, proposing big, grand solutions (like the Wall), while the other is more reserved, proposing small solutions
Crowd cheering for big solutions
Some motto that they keep chanting






Comes home to watch TV 
Hears reports of migrants coming in floods—TV
Gets mad—wants a wall
Close-minded
Hates the migrants even more
        Very tired — listens and absorbs what fear/anger TV gives


The Times
Reports facts, numbers
Headline that contradicts with his view (e.g. Border wall budget even higher), (Police are searching the wrong group of people), 
I threw the paper down in disgust. Who’d bother to read the dreary Times articles when we’d have the Border Wall to protect us?


The son
        Beginning—doubts the border wall (dialogue—utter stupidity of the border wall)
                Portray child as very clever, see pasts sensationalism and drama
        Reads the Times, gets scolded by his dad (narrator) for reading something pointless
        Dad makes him watch TV.


End: 
Some quotes from TV about immigrants coming in, guns, drugs, …
Gets scared
Narrator says don’t be scared, border wall will be built.




Dear Ms. Perkins,


I am a high school student interested in a career in journalism, and what better way to start than to volunteer at a local newspaper? I was hooked onto the world of journalism when I wrote an essay detailing the effects of sensationalism in TV and how, in my crude 7th grade words, “portraying politics as a boxing match and politicians as villains will not help democracy at all.” After that, I went on to publish more articles in the school magazine. One of which was a scathing article on why the school closing the school library at break times directly contradicted the school’s mantra of having “learners at the centre.” After the article was published, the school library went back to being open during recess and lunch. 


The fun I have had writing articles for the school magazine will sadly end as I move to high school. But I hope volunteering for the Courier will allow me to convert my interest in journalism into something worthwhile. 


If you are interested in giving a prospective journalist some real experience with the field, then please contact me, and perhaps I can send you a more detailed resume. 


Sincerely, 
Henry Nguyen