“Daddy, why do they want to deport Abdul? Does that mean I can’t play with him anymore?”
12 year old Johnny and his father, Kurt, sat on the couch. They had almost finished the 3 mandatory hours of television set by the government. Johnny’s dad loved the TV. Johnny would hear the muffled sounds of the TV right after his dad got home from work, and all the way until late night. 


“To solve BIG problems, we need BIG solutions. Just changing 2 words in the law will not give Americans back their home,” the candidate paused. “We need a Wall now! There is no time for civility and democracy when the people are on the streets!” The crowd’s roar raised to match the candidate’s yell. 
The other replied, “Muslims and immigrants are not the probl—” but was met with jeers and heckles. He tried again, “The Times reports 89% of murders in the US are committed by white people, not immigrants. Thes—” 
“What are you talking about? People are dying and you,” he pointed to the other candidate, “have the time to recite obscure numbers?” The camera panned towards the roaring crowd, chanting “Build the Wall!”
The screen rolled back to the news anchor. 
“These Muslims, they are bringing their guns. They are bringing their rapists, murderers, and terrorists into America. Our streets will be infested with drugs and guns and terrorists and Muslims. Build the Wall now, Save America From Disaster,” the news anchor spoke, a horrific video of a plane hitting a tower in New York 50 years ago in the background.
Johnny thought back to his Muslim friend, Abdul. Johnny was scared, and coupled with the sweltering heat of the evening, he was fatigued. 
“Why are the Muslims in our country,” Johnny struggled to keep his eyelids up. “We should have lived in a bigger house.” Johnny resigned and closed his eyes. “It’s only because of them.” “Why was Abdul even my friend,” Johnny thought back to when they shot each other with finger guns. 
“I should be ashamed of myself.” He tried to find of reasons of why he had been such good friends with Abdul, but he found none through the rhetoric of the news anchor.
Images of Abdul and his family in their new house—the house Johnny was supposed to be in—flashed before his eyes as he drifted off to sleep.


        “Jobs and salaries are steadily decreasing after swarms of illegal immigrants steal jobs from our people. Some Americans, unable to find a job, have been living on the streets, as immigrants from the South and beyond rise to take our opportunities away. Several cities are already experiencing slow economic growth and record high unemployment rates as unskilled immigrants flood the job market. This is Lily Parker for Cox Cable News. Next up after this commercial break will be a replay of the historic 9/11 attack conducted by radical Muslim terrorists. Will your city be their next target?”


        Johnny glanced at the clock. 30 more minutes of television. As much as Johnny would have liked to ignore the mandatory 3 hours of television, the memory was still fresh in his mind. He had been caught before.
        Johnny liked reading the Times newspaper. The small, uniform letters and numbers were a sharp contrast to the lurid magazines. The magazines Kurt enjoyed had big, bold, red titles and horrific images strewn across the pages. 
        Johnny slogged towards his room right as he had finished 3 hours. His dad still was fixed on the TV. A stack of Cox News tabloids sat neatly on Johnny’s desk. The first tabloid, published a year ago, was covered in a thin layer of dust, had a headline that read “DEADLY 2013 BOSTON BOMBING COULD HAPPEN AGAIN IN YOUR CITY” in big, red, letters. The other tabloids in the stack were pristine; they were just for show. That was not Johnny’s target. Instead, he headed directly for his bed, pulled a crinkled Times out from under his pillow, and began reading.
        Although Johnny couldn’t understand most of the words, the simple uniformity and blandness of the Times was enough to soothe his anxiety. The monotone of the black words and the simple images still captivated Johnny, as it was a stark contrast to the bright and flashing images of television.
        Downstairs, Kurt was still enthralled on the TV. 
“Today, we hope to replay footage of 9/11 to commemorate this horrific attack by Muslim extremists on American soil. These Muslims have already been taking over our jobs, our industry, and our country. We hope to replay this footage to remind the American people of the dangers if we do not have a Border Wall. 
[September 11, 2001 - 8:47 AM ET]
And here, we have just had reports that a plane has crashed into the World Trade Center. Something obviously disastrous has happened to the World Trade Center here in New York…”
A clip of a plane crashing into one of the World Trade Centers played on the screen. Though he had seen this clip so many times—it was played daily on television—fear still managed to creep in.
“How dare they!”
“The Muslims steal our houses, then they kill our people!”
“9/11 had not taught us anything, and the bombings in…” Kurt’s memory blanked. When was the last attack? 
He could only remember 9/11. 
        Still unfazed, Kurt continued his rant, “When will this stop? You Muslims, get out of our country. Go back to Pakistan or Iran or wherever else you belong.” 
        He looked around. Johnny had disappeared. 
        “That little guy,” Kurt sighed.
        “Probably in his room, doing who knows what.” 
        “Enough,” Kurt decided. With an unusual determination for someone who was generally reluctant to get off the couch, Kurt started for Johnny’s room.
        Johnny lay across his bed, still engrossed in the Times magazine. 
        “This Border Wall proposal is rapidly gaining ground within the American political system. More than half of the politicians are ready to defend its weaknesses. Television have their tricks to stir up anxiety about terrorist attacks long gone. The most notable trick—replaying videos of a terrorist attack done 50 years ago. One has to ask the question of ‘Why replay such an old clip that has little relevance today’ to understand that television’s only purpose.”
        The door banged open. He flicked his eyes to the doorway. His dad stood there menacingly.  The Times magazine was still in Johnny’s hands, unfettered by Kurt’s look of disgust and anger. 
        “Why are you reading that?” Kurt stormed into the room. He snatched the magazine away, and slapped his son with the other hand. 
        “I thought I taught you about fake news!” Kurt shouted, flicking the tattered magazine onto the floor. He looked at his son. Johnny tried hard not to cry, as he stared at his dad through tears. “Is it Abdul again?” Kurt asked, gentler this time.
“I told you to not play with him, didn’t I?” Kurt smiled down at his son, his anger gone. 
“What did he do to you?”
“Here, come with me.” Kurt lead Johnny to the TV in the living room.
Kurt led his son back towards the couch, facing the TV.
“Maybe it was a 300 passenger commercial plane that has exploded into the World Trade Center. It is too early to start speculating whether it is a terrorist attack or simply due to pilot error, as the main flight ‘path’ is a few miles away from the World Trade Center. 
It would seem very unlikely that a pilot would miss such a large landmark.
Oh My God. A second plane has hit the other tower.”
The Times magazine was a taboo, not only in his family, but also in Johnny’s school. The students and teachers would engage daily in a Times mocking ensemble. 
Johnny teemed with worry about what his dad would tell the others. That Johnny had been caught red-handed reading the Times? 
“Almost 2 million Americans have been displaced onto the streets by Muslim immigrants, and that number is expected to rise if immigration still continues at this rate.
However, the Border Wall is the first step towards ensuring we have our property and our housess back. The overwhelming success of the Border Wall proposal in the Congress and the Senate  is a good sign—that the government is willing to acknowledge the millions of our people living on the streets.
The illegal immigrants, most of them Muslim, coming from the Middle East are also destroying our America. From the World Trade Center to the Boston Bombing, these events have been the mark of an amalgamation of inferior terrorists with our culture, resulting in the crisis of homelessness and poverty. Save America from disaster. Build the Wall.”
Johnny was confused. The TV had proved everything he had known wrong. Johnny, looking up at his dad’s reassuring face, asked “Daddy, when will they build the Wall?”