“Daddy, why do they want to deport Abdul? Does that mean I can’t play with him anymore?”


I was on the couch with my little boy, fulfilling the mandatory 3 hours of television instated by the government so we could be informed about the happenings of the country. Highlights of the previous presidential debate was playing on TV, as the 2 candidates discussed about Muslims.


“To solve BIG problems, we need BIG solutions. Your tiny solutions will not remedy the massive wave of Muslims coming into our country!,” as the crowd’s roar raised to match the candidate’s shout. The other candidate replied, “Muslims and immigrants are not the prob—,” but the crowd’s deafening boo stopped him mid-sentence. He tried again, “96% of the murders in our country are caused by white people, these 


The screen rolled back to the news anchor. 


“These Muslims are bringing their guns. They are bringing their rapists, murderers, and terrorists into America. Our streets will be infested with drugs and guns and terrorists and Muslims. Build the Wall now, Save America From Disaster,” the news anchor spoke in the background, as a video of a Muslim terrorist attack 3 years ago was replayed. 


“Daddy, but Abdul doesn’t have a gun!” 


A world where everybody watches television
TV is fear mongering/ sensational
Politics is like boxing match — people come not to get information but for entertainment


Story of a “normal man” with a clever child 
Man goes to watch sensational TV everyday after long day of work — makes him susceptible to any “propaganda” the government gives.


Government makes people watch TV right after work, in the evening, so they are tired and are more susceptible to fear mongering, propaganda, they think less for themselves


Set in a time of an election, show presidential debate: roasting, punching, fighting, not talking about politics, and crowd cheering. Exactly like a boxing match. Narrator very excited to go.
In the end- learned nothing about the 2 candidates. 
Show 2 candidates: one loud, boisterous, proposing big, grand solutions (like the Wall), while the other is more reserved, proposing small solutions
Crowd cheering for big solutions
Some motto that they keep chanting






Comes home to watch TV 
Hears reports of migrants coming in floods—TV
Gets mad—wants a wall
Close-minded
Hates the migrants even more
        Very tired — listens and absorbs what fear/anger TV gives


The Times
Reports facts, numbers
Headline that contradicts with his view (e.g. Border wall budget even higher), (Police are searching the wrong group of people), 
I threw the paper down in disgust. Who’d bother to read the dreary Times articles when we’d have the Border Wall to protect us?


The son
        Beginning—doubts the border wall (dialogue—utter stupidity of the border wall)
                Portray child as very clever, see pasts sensationalism and drama
        Reads the Times, gets scolded by his dad (narrator) for reading something pointless
        Dad makes him watch TV.


End: 
Some quotes from TV about immigrants coming in, guns, drugs, …
Gets scared
Narrator says don’t be scared, border wall will be built.