3 hours of fear






“Daddy, why do they want to deport Abdul? Does that mean I can’t play with him anymore?”


13 year old Johnny and his father, Kurt, were on the couch, fulfilling their mandatory 3 hours of television instated by the government. The government had stated the 3 hours were for the public to become informed about the happenings of the country, and recommended watching television after work in the late evening. Johnny’s dad loved the TV. Johnny would hear the muffled sounds of the TV right after his dad got home from work, and all the way until late night. 


“To solve BIG problems, we need BIG solutions. Your tiny solutions will not remedy the massive wave of Muslims coming into our country!,” as the crowd’s roar raised to match the candidate’s shout. The other candidate replied, “Muslims and immigrants are not the prob—” but was met with the crowd’s boo, a deafening display of disapproval. He tried again, “The Times reports that 96% of the murders in our country are caused by white people, not immigrants. These—” the other candidate interrupted him, “What are you talking about? People are DYING and YOU have the time to recite obscure numbers?” The crowd roared with approval, chanting “Build the Wall! Build the Wall! Build the Wall!” 


The screen rolled back to the news anchor. 
“These Muslims, they are bringing their guns. They are bringing their rapists, murderers, and terrorists into America. Our streets will be infested with drugs and guns and terrorists and Muslims. Build the Wall now, Save America From Disaster,” the news anchor spoke as a horrific video of a plane hitting a tower in NY 50 years ago was replayed. As the clip was played almost daily among other warnings of an impending terrorist attack on TV, both Johnny and Kurt had seen it many times before. Still, the clip struck them with newfound fear daily.


        Johnny’s dad loved watching the TV, because it augmented the anger he felt towards immigrants. It also provided a break from a long day’s work, and provided a channel to release his stored-up anger. Kurt blamed the Muslims and the “illegals,” as he liked to call them, for stealing his jobs and benefits. Everywhere he went, he would fear a terrorist attack, so much so that Kurt would never go to movie theatres—he thought they were too confined and were a perfect spot for terrorist attacks. Although he had never seen an immigrant on his job and had never witnessed a terrorist attack, seeing the dangers on TV was enough. After all, that was why the government made everybody to watch 3 hours everyday: to be informed about events faraway.


        “Jobs and salaries are steadily decreasing after swarms of illegal immigrants steal jobs from our people. Some Americans, unable to find a job, have been living on the streets, as immigrants from the South and beyond rise to take our opportunities away. Several cities are already experiencing slow economic growth and record high unemployment rates as unskilled immigrants flood the job market. This is Lily Parker for Cox Cable News. Next up after this commercial break will be a replay of the historic 9/11 attack conducted by radical Muslim terrorists. Will your city be their next target?”


        Johnny glanced at the clock. 30 more minutes of television. As much as Johnny would have liked to disregard the 3 hour requirement, the memory was still fresh in his mind. He had been caught before. 


        Johnny sought refuge in the Times. The anxiety he got from watching 3 hours of TV 
A world where everybody watches television
TV is fear mongering/ sensational
Politics is like boxing match — people come not to get information but for entertainment


Story of a “normal man” with a clever child 
Man goes to watch sensational TV everyday after long day of work — makes him susceptible to any “propaganda” the government gives.


Government makes people watch TV right after work, in the evening, so they are tired and are more susceptible to fear mongering, propaganda, they think less for themselves


Set in a time of an election, show presidential debate: roasting, punching, fighting, not talking about politics, and crowd cheering. Exactly like a boxing match. Narrator very excited to go.
In the end- learned nothing about the 2 candidates. 
Show 2 candidates: one loud, boisterous, proposing big, grand solutions (like the Wall), while the other is more reserved, proposing small solutions
Crowd cheering for big solutions
Some motto that they keep chanting






Comes home to watch TV 
Hears reports of migrants coming in floods—TV
Gets mad—wants a wall
Close-minded
Hates the migrants even more
        Very tired — listens and absorbs what fear/anger TV gives


The Times
Reports facts, numbers
Headline that contradicts with his view (e.g. Border wall budget even higher), (Police are searching the wrong group of people), 
I threw the paper down in disgust. Who’d bother to read the dreary Times articles when we’d have the Border Wall to protect us?


The son
        Beginning—doubts the border wall (dialogue—utter stupidity of the border wall)
                Portray child as very clever, see pasts sensationalism and drama
        Reads the Times, gets scolded by his dad (narrator) for reading something pointless
        Dad makes him watch TV.


End: 
Some quotes from TV about immigrants coming in, guns, drugs, …
Gets scared
Narrator says don’t be scared, border wall will be built.