Most students think that teachers are lucky, they do not have any homework to do. However, I think of teachers are unlucky. Why? Because they have to deal with misbehaving kids or unfinished homework ,et cetera. Moreover, they have to mark tons and tons of homework done by students compared to doing one single page of math. Today, I am going to write about me being a teacher, and what I would do if I was a teacher.
Being a teacher sounds crazy to every student, including me. If I was a teacher, then I would give them textbooks to do, and homework to be completed, but I do not check it. Then when the tests finally come, all the students who had done their homework should be fine with all the questions in the tests. But the students who had not done their homework will not know anything about the test. But that does not mean that the test affects 100% of their grade, sometimes I will check their homework if it is a really important lesson. That is what my teacher does when he assigns math homework. I know this guy, who has skipped his math homework like 99% of the time, but he gets 90% and above in all of his tests! That is because he learned them long ago, and he does a more advanced kind of math. I would also let my students do cool stuff like carving rocks and making science experiments. Anyways, I think being a teacher can be a  lot of work. Imagine marking 60 student's work, and if you make a mistake, that student comes and complains to you, which is kind of annoying. Moreover, if they do not get it, then you have to waste tons of time explaining it to them, and you cannot just say, " you cannot get this, do something else." As you can see, do not think being a teacher and giving student homework is fun. In fact, the more homework you give, the more you have to mark.
Teachers, in fact, are mean sometimes, like you had just done a minor problem and he or she makes you go to the principal's office. Being a teacher is kind of like being a parent, you have to care for that child, you have to lecture it until your son gets it, and that can be annoying too sometimes.