A Death for a Man, a Thousand Tears for a Child
So many wars,
So many wounds.


So many deaths,
With so little purpose.


Counted in millions,
Are the deaths of men.
But counted in infinites,
Are the tears of a child.


I dreamt of him,
Up, from above the clouds,
And down, below the trenches.


I would sleep dreaming of him.
“Where would I meet him?,
Would he be strong enough to carry me?,
Am I taller than him?”


When she pulled me out of class,
The questions changed.
“How many tears could the body hold?,
When would I stop crying.”
I tasted a lot of salt that day.


My father’s death was commemorated.
But the death inside me,
Passed silently.


	

	(Narrative)
Poetic Devices:
* Alliteration/Repetition (Lines 1-4)
* Symbolism: The father takes part in everything the boy has done in this world, and when the father dies, the boy feels the effects.
* Rhetorical questions: They convey the boy’s thoughts and childish manner without it being a direct monologue of him reciting his emotions to the speaker. 
* Foreshadowing: Stanza 3 foreshadows a death, which would later happen in Stanza 6.


Brief analysis:
I wrote this poem because I realized that a man’s death might have a compounded effect on a large family, and much more on a child whose entire life has been dominated by either his mother or father. So for one of them to die, must mean that 50% of all of the experiences and emotions he has experienced is lost. The themes of this poem are lost, family, and war, as it conveys the lost that all families feel when one member dies in a war. 


I used the poetic devices above to add some variety to the poem: I didn’t want it to just be another emotional, dragged-out, melodramatic monologue of a boy lamenting the loss of his father. I also wanted some story element, so that’s why there was foreshadowing.
	Ocean
Someone, always around
Sometimes, so calm, smooth, soothing.
Other times, crashing and thundering.


In the lulls of the night, 
stomping the shore with your feet,
And in the light of the day, 
pounding the sand with your surf.


You are deeper than we know.
Merely a superhero, but in disguise.
Underneath your somber waves,
Are things no human grasps.
Something so powerful,
Ocean (cont.)
Used as a dumping place.


So vast,
But not vastly understood.
So kind, forgiving,
Yet exploited without mercy.


I heard you were 70% of this world,
But I have only seen 1% of you.


	

	(Free Verse)
Poetic Devices:
* Alliteration (stanza 1)
* Imagery of the ocean
* Personification




Brief analysis:
 I wrote this poem because I realized the ocean was being mistreated and there were a lot of things that we didn’t know about it. The theme of this poem is to preserve the environment and don’t just exploit it for selfish gains.


Personification was used because it gave the ocean some character and human characteristics, and also to emphasize how volatile it was: changing from calm to storm within moments. I also used imagery to describe the ocean, and so the reader could visualize the ocean and its “stomping the shore...pounding the sand,” better. 
	Dancing Death
First, it danced around the trees. 
We all knew—but what could we do?
The next day, it came closer.
We watched its dance through his eyes.


The alarm ringed,
Eggs sizzled,
The sun went up, and down—
And Death came closer.


We waited—
Tried to talk—held hands.
Argued—cried—
And Death came closer.


When we all pretended to sleep,
When the tick, tock of the clock seemed so loud.
When we tried so hard to not think about Death—
That’s when Death knocked.


We stormed down to confront it,
face to face with Death.
We glared at it, but couldn’t.
It was his face that we were staring at.


Death danced around his limp body—
Then left.


Nature changed.
The body looked the same—
Nature changed.


We cleaned up Death’s leftovers.
And watched Death dance away,
To its next victim.
	

	(Elegy/Free Verse)
Poetic Devices:
* Personification: Death dancing
* Narration/Description
* Line breaks: consistent 4 line stanzas until “Death danced around his limp body.”
* Metaphor: “Death’s leftover” being compared to the body
* Repetition: “Nature changed,” “And death came closer.”
* Onomatopoeia: “tick, tock of the clock seemed so loud.”
* Fragmentation: the dashes suggest the narrator’s state of mind: fragmented and fragile. 
* Symbolism: Death is omniscient and fleeting: we don’t get a very good description of him


Brief analysis:
I wrote this poem because I wanted to test out rhythm and dashes and line breaks in poetry. The themes of this poem are death, and the resulting state of mind of the other family members. 


I portrayed Death as omniscient and fleeting in this poem: only appearing once to “dance around his limp body.” The other occasions where he appears only serves to build the mystique around Death. I also purposely made all the stanzas 4 lines until he actually died, to show the effect it had—so much that “Nature changed.” 


After the death, I only referred to the body as an object, and “Death’s leftovers” because it had died. Even though the body still looked the same, just the simple fact that he died “changed nature.” 


The fact that the whole poem is passive and reminiscent in language also creates the depressing mood of a person dying.