Finalist of CBC First Page Writing Contest


Underground Artist


I was doing a bad job of keeping the different paints apart on the paint palette. It wasn’t even a palette, more like a disposable foam plate. It barely sufficed, but I shouldn’t be complaining. Painting was illegal. 


The government started persecuting artists 20 years ago, right when AI was beginning to gain traction in the art market. AI art was mostly textbook-propaganda: silly yellow posters of The Octavian overlooking the brothers sprawled across Parliament Hill to as far as the eye could see. The colours too bright, the triangles too straight, and the grass too green. 


My stubborn little head insisted that art was too “human” for AI. And that stubborn little head is what brought me here, into a warehouse in Chilliwack, at night, painting Thomas Jefferson before the Continental Congress. I didn’t even know why I still painted. Money was better found elsewhere, besides the fact that it was illegal. 


A bright flash of light glared in my eyes. I heard shouting from outside the garage door followed by a dozen more flashes of light, glaring through the cracks of the warehouse door. 


It was the police. I threw the foam plate onto the canvas and stuffed the 2 paintbrushes into my coat. 


“STAY WHERE YOU ARE. DO NOT MOVE. STAY WHERE YOU ARE.” 


Farewell, Jefferson. I turned the blue and orange faced Jefferson towards the warehouse door. I had planned this escape. I lowered my body down the tunnel and grasped the ladder. The trapdoor banged shut above me. 


The rusted rungs of the ladder bit into my fingers. I could just make out a faint light from the end of the tunnel. 


“Right foot down. Right hand down.” I tried to calm myself. “Left foot down. Left hand do—“ There was something on the rung. I could just see it. Wet, yellow. Like paint. I scrunched my face closer. It was paint! 


But I certainly hadn’t used yellow paint. How had it gotten here? 


A scurry of footsteps and a bang of metal echoed below. 


I heard shouting from outside and the crash of the garage door. I hurried down the ladder. Their flashlights scanned the room, occasionally blinding my eyes through the slits on the trapdoor. There wasn’t much time left. 


I feared whomever was below the tunnel. But I had to keep descending: the police had surrounded me above.