I suffer from an addiction to Google Maps. 


My first exposure to such a beautiful, yet simple program was as a 6 year old in the hot summer of Vietnam. I still remember that moment vividly, almost as if it had happened yesterday. I was playing random games on Miniclip or some other Vietnamese websites on my dad’s computer. Obviously, my dad had to be away for that to happen, and I seized just the right moment when he had exited the house to jump to the computer and type miniclip.com, almost in a rehearsed manner. 


It was destined that my dad would caught me, like a deer in the headlights on his computer one day—but the joys of shooting 2d zombies with laggy guns was too fun for my 5 year old mind to be put away from. And certainly, the inevitable did happen: the click clack of my dad’s boots as he entered the door, and the quick shuffling of feet as he ascended the stairs was too quick for me to pretend to get back to studying. The only thing I could do was to quickly fumble for the tab-close buttons and pretend to be obsessed with whatever appeared on the computer, which was, incidentally, Google Maps. I scrolled around absentmindedly, all the while my heart beating wildly as I realized how close I was to being shouted at. 


I was focused intently on the screen—a contour of nameless roads and yellow highways and white lines scrawled over blue curves. It was uncommon for such a small kid to be that intently focused on a map—much less one in a language that he could barely understand. Still, I had to maintain the cover that I was browsing Google Maps for the time my dad was gone. 


When my adrenaline had calmed down, I turned my attention to the tangle of white lines and blue curves zig zagging through these white lines, and bigger yellow lines that crossed straight through the smaller white lines. They were interesting, but it perplexed me even more when I zoomed in and out, to see some lines disappear while others stayed put. I spent the better part of a half hour just zooming out, till I could see the highway zig zag through hills and mountains, and zoomed in to the small pool in the backyard of my house.


Normally, my adventures with Google Maps would have ended there, and I would have focused on doing something more “kid-like.” However, my fascination with Google Maps glued me to the seat and enticed glances from my confused dad, perhaps, very confused on why his son would be so intent upon viewing a map of Vietnam. Luckily, he had not known the real reason I was sat hunched over the computer: to play games.


But this time, my fascination was real. It was more than just the short-sighted interested that stemmed from zombie-shooter games.