The Glamour of Google Maps
I first discovered what a computer was at age 3, when I poked around the big black box my dad was always around. I found the things on it moved when I moved my finger or did weird things when I pressed the little buttons. But I don’t consider it the day I discovered the glamour of tech.
I first discovered what Google Maps was at age 6, just right after immigrating to Canada from Vietnam. I remember specifically the little stickman that would follow my mouse pointer with a little delay and plop right down on the blue lines representing roads where I had put my pointer. With little drags of my baby fingers I could look around the Canada I was in—proclaimed as “the golden country” by my Vietnamese relatives. 
The first thing that struck me was green. Green grass, green trees, green shrubs. I raced down Main St and looked with awe at the orderly lanes of cars. Turned left onto Kingsway and immediately felt at home—the dirtied streetsides of Pho restaurants and grandmas strolling down the sidewalk with two bagfuls of groceries in hand. I clicked towards a small neighbourhood street and admired the line of trees that continued to the horizon, and behind them a similar row of houses. In Vietnam, this street would have been loud with street side dessert shops and kids playing soccer on the sidewalk with slippers as goalposts. 
This Google Maps preview of what would be my new hometown for 7 or so years got me excited, and I climbed over a valley of cardboard moving boxes onto the windowsill, where I could confirm myself with my own eyes of the world I was living in. It fit the phrases my aunts and uncles used: “no trash on the streets,” “no roaring motorbikes,” “trees everywhere,” and “clean, smooth roads.” There were no boys playing soccers with flip-flops on the street, and nor was there the trusty “pastry woman” to which I could buy bread wrapped in old newspapers with a few wrinkled bills my mom gave me. I would have to go to the supermarket five blocks away now in Canada—and use the self-checkout counters with clean store-branded plastic grocery bags. 
Canada was my new playground, and Google Maps was the legs and arms I would use to explore it. I would use the excuse of studying on the computer, whatever “studying” had meant to a 7 year old me, to click around the streets of Vancouver. I felt a sense of home near Chinatown with the dirtied sidewalks and small asian stores that lined the small downtown streets, awe at the multi level concrete overpasses leading to a big highway. 
Needless to say, this simple website provided for my entertainment for the whole two months leading up to the start of the school year. Every so often I would revisit it to figure out my directions, and memories of my age seven fascinations with the golden world around would arise. 










I suffer from an addiction to Google Maps. 


My first exposure to such a beautiful, yet simple program was as a 6 year old in the hot summer of Vietnam. I still remember that moment vividly, almost as if it had happened yesterday. I was playing random games on Miniclip or some other Vietnamese websites on my dad’s computer. Obviously, my dad had to be away for that to happen, and I seized just the right moment when he had exited the house to jump to the computer and type miniclip.com, almost in a rehearsed manner. 


It was destined that my dad would caught me, like a deer in the headlights on his computer one day—but the joys of shooting 2d zombies with laggy guns was too fun for my 5 year old mind to be put away from. And certainly, the inevitable did happen: the click clack of my dad’s boots as he entered the door, and the quick shuffling of feet as he ascended the stairs was too quick for me to pretend to get back to studying. The only thing I could do was to quickly fumble for the tab-close buttons and pretend to be obsessed with whatever appeared on the computer, which was, incidentally, Google Maps. I scrolled around absentmindedly, all the while my heart beating wildly as I realized how close I was to being shouted at. 


I was focused intently on the screen—a contour of nameless roads and yellow highways and white lines scrawled over blue curves. It was uncommon for such a small kid to be that intently focused on a map—much less one in a language that he could barely understand. Still, I had to maintain the cover that I was browsing Google Maps for the time my dad was gone. 


When my adrenaline had calmed down, I turned my attention to the tangle of white lines and blue curves zig zagging through these white lines, and bigger yellow lines that crossed straight through the smaller white lines. They were interesting, but it perplexed me even more when I zoomed in and out, to see some lines disappear while others stayed put. I spent the better part of a half hour just zooming out, till I could see the highway zig zag through hills and mountains, and zoomed in to the small pool in the backyard of my house.


Normally, my adventures with Google Maps would have ended there, and I would have focused on doing something more “kid-like.” However, my fascination with Google Maps glued me to the seat and enticed glances from my confused dad, perhaps, very confused on why his son would be so intent upon viewing a map of Vietnam. Luckily, he had not known the real reason I was sat hunched over the computer: to play games.


But this time, my fascination was real. It was more than just the short-sighted interested that stemmed from zombie-shooter games.