The Glamour of Google Maps
I first discovered what a computer was at age 3, when I poked around the big black box my dad was always around. I found the things on it moved when I moved my finger or did weird things when I pressed the little buttons. But I don’t consider it the day I discovered the glamour of tech.
I first discovered what Google Maps was at age 6, just right after immigrating to Canada from Vietnam. I remember specifically the little stickman that would follow my mouse pointer with a little delay and plop right down on the blue lines representing roads where I had put my pointer. With little drags of my baby fingers I could look around the Canada I was in—proclaimed as “the golden country” by my Vietnamese relatives. 
The first thing that struck me was green. Green grass, green trees, green shrubs. I raced down Main St and looked with awe at the orderly lanes of cars. Turned left onto Kingsway and immediately felt at home—the dirtied streetsides of Pho restaurants and grandmas strolling down the sidewalk with two bagfuls of groceries in hand. I clicked towards a small neighbourhood street and admired the line of trees that continued to the horizon, and behind them a similar row of houses. In Vietnam, this street would have been loud with street side dessert shops and kids playing soccer on the sidewalk with slippers as goalposts. 
This Google Maps preview of what would be my new hometown for 7 or so years got me excited, and I climbed over a valley of cardboard moving boxes onto the windowsill, where I could confirm myself with my own eyes of the world I was living in. It fit the phrases my aunts and uncles used: “no trash on the streets,” “no roaring motorbikes,” “trees everywhere,” and “clean, smooth roads.” There were no boys playing soccers with flip-flops on the street, and nor was there the trusty “pastry woman” to which I could buy bread wrapped in old newspapers with a few wrinkled bills my mom gave me. I would have to go to the supermarket five blocks away now in Canada—and use the self-checkout counters with clean store-branded plastic grocery bags. 
Canada was my new playground, and Google Maps was the legs and arms I would use to explore it. I would use the excuse of studying on the computer, whatever “studying” had meant to a 7 year old me, to click around the streets of Vancouver. I felt a sense of home near Chinatown with the dirtied sidewalks and small asian stores that lined the small downtown streets, awe at the multi level concrete overpasses leading to a big highway. 
Needless to say, this simple website provided for my entertainment for the whole two months leading up to the start of the school year. Every so often I would revisit it to figure out my directions, and memories of my age seven fascinations with the golden world around would arise.