Earth has a great variety of resources, some of which we really need, such as wood, food, vegetables, and oxygen. Earth has also provided us with the resources that we do not really need, such as diamonds and gold, which we only use for fashion purposes or make our life easier. I think that in order for humans to survive, we need four things, and those items are food, water, heat, and air. However, “air” does not mean any type of air, because some of the airs are dangerous. I define “air” as oxygen. However, I will just write about water in this writing.
Canada has a great water source, because surrounding it is water and oceans, well, except for the South Side, which is the United States. Two recent reports state that the water supply is running low, especially near native and aboriginal areas. That must mean either we are wasting and so much water or we are polluting so much water. If either of those happens, we will run into problems that have to involve with Canada’s water supplies in the future. I had thought that our Earth has unlimited supplies of water before I learned that most of the water on the Earth was not clean, thanks to pollution. While I was studying in grade 4, I was learning from a visitor that our water supply was limited and we have to start conserving water. I hope that humans will find another water supply. I think that this is very queer because Canada has the world’s largest water supply. If the water supply was smaller, then I could have thought that it was all right. However, since Canada has the largest, then what about other countries? Will they be the same as Canada, or have a more limited water supply as if the world was limited on water? This is all because of pollution. If there were no pollution, then I think that we would have an unlimited water supply, because I can just filter the salt out of the water in the ocean and drink it. I wish I could do that because than poor Africans can use that method to survive.
Do not think that water is the only concern in Canada and other countries, there are also many other concerns, such as wood, coal, and many others. Since most of the ocean water is polluted, I would rather limit oil tankers and other ships that might pollute the ocean than clean the ocean itself. I think that the prime minister will be doing something about the water problem.