It was my friend, who forced me to read the book “The lightning thief”, and you know what, I got addicted to it. When he forced me to read the first book in the series, I said that I saw the movie already, but he still forced me, so I reluctantly borrowed it from the school library. When I got home, I did not read it right away, but I decided that the reading the book wasn’t a very big deal, so I made it wait. After dinner, I decided to read it; it was the best book I have ever seen. 
For me, most of the books that I read have boring openings, or t is very hard to get the story. Oppositely, the first book in the Percy Jackson series did not have a boring opening, nor it is hard to get. I continued reading for a long time, not realizing the time. While reading the book, I noticed that some parts of the book were not in the movie, before, I thought that movies were supposed to be full, and connected with the book. Actually, lots of parts were missing, such as the best one: Percy was on a Greyhound train travelling to where his mom lives so that he can say hi to her, but when he was waiting at the station, he saw 3 old ladies both knitting, and they felt “inhuman” somehow. I was so happy that I read the book because the other books in the series were also very good, perhaps even better. And guess what, I went to my school library and borrowed a second one. It was as good as the first one, if not, and then the second book is even better. After that day, I quickly read the whole series and I read the last book. I was really disappointed at that time because the series what going on really exciting, and I wanted to know what will happen next. So, one of my friends that had introduced me to reading this series long ago suggested that I read the next series, which has the same character and the same storyline. The first book in the new series was a little bit hard to catch up, because it was a new series after all. By saying it is a little bit hard to catch up does not mean that the opening of the book is bad, it just means that the other book is better if they are compared.
So it seems like Rick Riordan is a good writer after all, because before I read the book, I thought that he was like all the authors that I did not like, boring opening.