In each of these 3 stories,  the stories“The Jabber,” “Fish Cheeks,” and “On My Knees the Sidewalk Bleeding,” the characters are in conflict with society’s norms about how they should behave. In all of these each story, the characters dislike the norms (I am not sure that this statement is true for these stories. I think they are feeling conflicted between their true selves and the “norms” of majority culture) that their culture imposes upon them, and tries to challenge these norms. In “The Jabber,” the character succeeds in challenging these norms stereotypes and in turn, her peers have acknowledged her differently than a stereotype. In the 2 other stories, their attempts to distance themselves from their stereotype have failed ( I would say this is true for Andy but not Amy) The common themes remain similar, however, stating the value of identity on a person’s life and on how others treat them. – clarify what you mean with this sentence


Fatima in “The Jabber” is subjected to stereotypes from everyone in her new school, even by her mini-boyfriend crush Jorah. Their first impressions of her remain something similar to a timid, shy, and passive Muslim girl. Fatima’s real identity, revealed as the play progresses, defies all these stereotypes, and show her as a daring, brave, and liberal person. (this is good! Can you give an example from the play to support your point?)


The other 2 short stories, “Fish Cheeks,” and “On My Knees Bleeding,” features the other side of the same theme. Amy Tan’s Chinese culture doesn’t play well with the minister’s family and their own identity. When Amy’s dad “poked his chopsticks just below the fish eye and plucked out the soft meat,” or when the “relatives licked the ends...dozen or so plates of food,” the minister’s family visibly express their disgust. Amy would’ve immediately abandoned her Chinese customs in favor for the norms, but her mother asks Amy to continue to be Chinese. 
Unlike “The Jabber,” Amy is asked instead to maintain her traditional customs, rather than abandon them ( I don’t think Fatima abandoned her culture but she did break stereotypes and there is more to her culture than what people immediately think)


In “On My Knees Bleeding,” the protagonist had 2 identities: the Royals, and Andy. The protagonist had just suffered a stabbing wound because he was a “Royal,” but wants to die as an "Andy." He didn't want his death to be "just another gang member," or his death as another news story condemning gang violence. Andy doesn't want any gangs from staining his identity, so he spends his last bit of energy to remove his Royals jacket. (good)


 These 3 stories each come from a different angle regarding this universal identity theme, but they all reinforce the importance of identity. And even when everyone at the school thinks you are a terrorist, or when all of your values work against you, or when you are stabbed and are going to die, identity is something that you have the most power of. They permeate the idea that if you are strong enough, then your identity will be unfettered by peer pressure or stereotypes, and if a dying, stabbed person in the middle of the streets can “individualize” their identity, then so can you
 
Henry, you make some really good points in your paragraphs and are attempting synthesis which is great! I think the argument that Andy and Amy are experiencing the same thing is a little difficult to support. I think this essay would be best if you discussed how Fatima was able to break stereotypes but Andy wasn’t and perhaps Fish Cheeks doesn’t quite fit with your argument and you can omit it. Let me know what you think of this suggestion.