In the stories “The Jabber,” and “On the Sidewalk Bleeding,” the characters are in conflict with society’s norms about how they should behave. In each story, the characters are at conflict with the identities that their peers impose upon them, and proceeds to challenge these norms. In “The Jabber,” the character succeeds in challenging these stereotypes and in turn, her peers have acknowledged her differently than a stereotype. In “On the Sidewalk Bleeding,” their attempts to distinguish themselves from stereotypes have failed. The common themes remain similar throughout the 2 stories, that stereotypes doesn’t fully convey a person’s real identity.


Fatima in “The Jabber” is subjected to stereotypes from everyone in her new school, even by her crush Jorah. Their first impressions of her remain something similar to a timid, shy, and passive Muslim girl. Fatima’s real identity, revealed as the play progresses, defies all these stereotypes, and show her as a daring, brave, and liberal person. Several times in the play, Fatima crosses the imaginary boundaries that Jorah sets up, like when Fatima sits too close to Jorah at the beginning of their relationship. Jorah assumes that Fatima’s hijab binds her behaviour to strict Conservative guidelines, regardless of her real personality and identity.


In “On the Sidewalk Bleeding,” the protagonist had 2 identities: the Royals, and Andy. The protagonist had just suffered a stabbing wound because he was a “Royal,” but wants to die as an "Andy." He didn't want his death to be "just another gang member," or his death as another news story condemning gang violence. Since Andy’s real identity is smeared by his “Royal” jacket, Andy “with great effort he rolled over on his back…he wanted to take off the jacket.” 


These 3 stories each come from a different angle regarding this universal identity theme, but they all reinforce the importance of identity. And even when everyone at the school thinks you are a terrorist, or when all of your values work against you, or when you are stabbed and are going to die, identity is something that you have the most power of. They permeate the idea that if you are strong enough, then your identity will be unfettered by peer pressure or stereotypes, and if a dying, stabbed person in the middle of the streets can “individualize” their identity, then so can you.