Skiing—choosing to climb on spanky’s ladder[a]


On the ski lift, I could barely make out 5 skiers through the fog. They were making their way up Spanky’s Ladder, a trail that leads to several steep chutes on the other side of the mountain. 
I strained my neck to look at the 5 neon-colored dots making their way up over the side of the mountain. But the fog slowly enveloped me again as the chairlift continued forwards. The solidarity gave me ample time to consider surrendering to my fear. 
How easy could it be to stay on the well-marked run? 
The fog had enveloped me now. 
Why do it now? Just do it later, when the conditions are better. Ski it with other people. It’s safer that way. 
As I got higher up the mountain, the frozen mist became colder and the wind blew harder. Snow and frozen rain only bombarded my uncovered face. It was numb. I turned away from the wind to shield my face. Now, the back of my neck was numb. Everything is numb. 
You can’t even see anything. Just take the easy route. It’s not that hard. The climb will tire you out before you even start skiing. It’s dangerous. Wait until it’s sunny.
The end of the chairlift emerged slowly from the fog, and I got a brief break from the wind and the cold. Oh how good it had felt! The cold wind soon returned, and a short while after, the numbness.
I cruised down the wide run easily, only disturbed by the occasional gust of wind that would prompt me to helplessly shield my face with my arms. 
See how easy it is? Just continue on this path. You will soon reach the restaurant at the bottom. No more gusts of wind, no more frozen rain. Just blissful warmth. Don’t need to take the small trail. Do it later. Now, all you need is warmth, and some food in your stomach. 




The trail was 1 feet wide; on the right, was an insurmountable wall of ice; on the left, was a steep bank, dotted with cliffs and boulders, that lead towards the ski run below. The trail itself was so steep that climbing it was almost impossible when it had fresh snow, because there wasn’t anything for your boots to grip, according to the resort “veterans” that he had met.
The chutes were infamous for common avalanches and low visibility even on a perfect sunny day. And I was about to ski it. In the middle of a snowstorm.
[a]Think of a specific moment when you were at a crossroads, major or minor. For example: screwing up the courage to ask someone on a date, deciding if you should fight back at someone who affronted you, unpacking in your first college dorm room, standing on the altar about to be married. Zero in on that specific moment. Remember all that you can about that moment, perhaps even jotting things down. What did you see, hear, smell, touch, or taste? What were you thinking or feeling?


Now try to write about this moment, bringing it to life on the page. (Use the details you remembered.) You may allude to things before and after, but stay mostly focused on that exact moment in time.
Try to keep it under 500 words, with 750 words as a maximum.