On the ski lift, I could barely make out 5 skiers through the fog. They were making their way up Spanky’s Ladder, a trail that leads to several steep chutes on the other side of the mountain. 
I strained my neck to look at the 5 neon-colored dots making their way up over the side of the mountain. But the fog slowly enveloped me again as the chairlift continued steadily forwards. I had ample time to consider surrendering to my fears. 
How easy could it be to stay on the well-marked run? 
The fog had enveloped me now. 
Why do it now? Just do it later, when the conditions are better. You can barely see right now. You can’t even see anything. Just take the easy route. It’s not that hard. The climb will tire you out before you even start skiing. It’s dangerous. Wait until it’s sunny.
Once I got to the top of the chairlift, I cruised down the wide run easily, only disturbed by the occasional gust of wind that would prompt me to helplessly shield my face with my arms. 
See how easy it is? There is a restaurant at the bottom. No more gusts of wind, no more frozen rain. Just blissful warmth. Don’t need to take Spanky’s Ladder. Do it later. Now, all you need is warmth and some food in your stomach. 
The small trail emerged amongst an insurmountable wall of ice. I veered right, heading towards the trail. It was 1 feet wide; on the right, was a wall of ice; on the left, was a steep bank dotted with small cliffs and boulders. 
I looked back over my shoulders. Waves of skiers cruised on the wide ski run. Nobody else seemed to head for the trail. 
Dude. Just quit. You are better off waiting for a clearer day.
My jacket now stuck to my skin as melted snow and sweat seeped through. If I proceeded forward, the only way down would be skiing the chutes. The trail was too narrow. This would be my last chance.
I couldn’t trust my fear. I tentatively took one step forwards. And another. And I kept taking steps forward until I reached the gate of Spanky’s Ladder. A sign with the words “SPANKY’S LADDER” in large capitals and 2 black diamonds underneath rattled against the snow in the gusts. A different sign, with the words “Only for expert skiers” against a harsh black background. 
I pushed forward with my poles past the signs and looked precariously over the edge. It was steep. And icy. I could already hear my skis failing to grip the surface of the ice, and I could see myself tumbling down the slope. The only way downwards was to just go down. Unless, of course, a rescue helicopter flew me down. But that was the coward’s route. And with that, I pushed off the edge.


That was the best run of my life.