I do not understand why humans fight against each other, why could not they work together? Yes, it is a simple question, but the answer is very complicated, but I am not even sure there is an answer to that question. Anyways, I heard and I think that species fight against other species, not of their own kind. In other words, humans should not fight against each other, and if they wanted to fight, they should fight against animals, or any other species on the Earth. However, that does not mean I like war. Anyways, countries and humans make many weapons to defend against other countries, or to attack other countries. In my opinion, one of the mightiest weapons of all is nuclear bombs. If you do not know what are nuclear bombs, they are bombs that could destroy an entire city! Anyways, I am going to talk about whether nuclear bombs are peacekeepers or war makers. 

I am saying this because there has not been war since the latest nuclear bomb was dropped, which was long ago. I think that it creates a tension and chain effect between the country, and one gentle push could result in mass destruction, and would cause many people to dye. In other words, there are lots of countries that have nuclear bombs, and if one country bomb another country, then that country would bomb other countries, and so on. I do not know how I should describe nuclear bombs, peacekeepers or war makers. However, it is not just nuclear bombs that are making the tension between the countries, there are other types of mass destruction, such as poison. I do not know why humans make so many mass destruction gadgets, but I think that it is because they want land, or more power. I am pretty sure that another nuclear bombs going to be dropped in any city because the world is on the verge of war, and large countries are already preparing for war, either mass production of war machines, or defending their countries. 


My question is “ Why do people fight?” It seems ridiculous, such a simple question like that, but the answer is very complicated. I would rather remove all mass destruction weapons than let the countries have them, because that poses a great threat that that country is going to start a war. Also, there is terrorism, not just wars.