1. The road to a safer future.
2. How does education contribute to a fairer future? 
3. ‘Healthy, Wealthy, Happy, and Free’: is one more important than the others?
4. Future generations have rights too, which must be defended. Discuss. 


1: The road to a safer futureThe road to a safer future is not multiple roads that each nation can look towards and pursue on their own merit. Similarly, the road to a safer future is not a road in which we can enter at any time, although it is a road in which we can fall off it at any time. The road to a safer future is also not one that we, as a unified species, can pursue on a whim, but decide then 5 weeks later that “more important problems” need to be solved or “we are out of budget.” It would be hard to call this road a “road”—rather, it is more of a precarious ridge. Besides this ridge, if we fail to stay on this ever thinner ridge, are all the consequences third-world countries are all too familiar with: hunger, floods, droughts, and overall, not a safer future. Just from a quick glance at the current situation and at any newspaper front page reveals how far we are from this ridge, and while the inevitable consequences that lie are a horizon’s away, we must work quickly to get onto this ridge, that is a safer future. The road to a safer future must be traversed for the biggest of obstacles like corporate resistance and budgeting, and we must avoid common excuses to bypass these obstacles and chase short-term elections. Thus, with all the current government malaise, we cannot expect to reliably stay on this ridge for more than 5 months straight. However, we must act fast. The ridge is thinning for every moment that we participate in environmental destruction. If we hesitate too much and dwell too long on petty human issues, this ridge will no longer exist. By then, no matter how many resources we have or how determined and effective governments will be, there will no longer be a road to a safer future. We must enter this ridge before it runs out.* Everywhere on the news, the road to a safer future, the road to a safer future, the road to a safer future.    * Yet, no one knows the definitive road to a safer future—does it involve renewables or nuclear? Does it require higher investment on education or more financial aid available to students? We don’t seem to know.* When one nation looks left for the road to a safer future, another looks right; when one looks one way upon an issue, the other looks the other way. We can’t seem to decide upon which road to take. Even when leaders have convened regarding climate change in Paris for weeks straight, they had all left thinking different thoughts, many of them still figuring out how to dodge the promises they had made. While the biggest obstacle towards a safer future is indeed fixing the environment, we have strayed so far and so long without recognizing the impacts of our actions, such that this supposed road is no longer a road—rather, it is a ridge. It is a ridge with steep sloping sides that lead toward the consequences third-world countries are all to aware of: hunger, violence, floods, droughts, and more. Getting on this ridge is hard, and staying on it through all of its depressions (wc) and bumps will require much more dedication from the government than today. We must stay on this ridge no matter how much money will tempt us to get off this ridge, because once we get off, we can’t get back on. For now, the way to a safer future is still a narrow road that stretches all the way to the short horizon that the eye can see. But if we keep ignoring the inevitable, and keep on chasing short, monetary temptations which lead us nowhere to the thinning road to a safer future, then it will be harder and harder. A global collective, not different from the Paris Climate Conference will help us align towards the ridge that will lead us to a safer future. That is the first step. But we cannot just walk away facing whatever the closest monetary temptation is—as had happened with the previous Conference. What should be different?______________________________________________________________
2. How does education contribute to a fairer future?


Opening: Describe a scene (flashback) where past me is watching TV where they showed several shootings after crimes after floods after droughts. Scared. And what did shootings and deaths and crime and drought mean to my little 8 year old mind? I clutched my mom’s hand tightly after and hugged her with all the strength I could muster after the show ended. Yes—that was my version/interpretation (?) of all of these negative news: losing my mom. 




Still in Vietnam at that time—did not know anything about media malaise or fear-mongering media. After 6 more years of education at Canada, I now feel unfazed by the barrage of terrorist attacks and so-called “predictions” on media. Now, hearing about a terrorist attack, nor hearing that a drought is “destined” to reach my city are no longer the reasons I clutch my parents’ hand. 




What does all of this have to do with a fairer future? In the past, power was dictated by either who was the strongest, or who was born into the strongest family. Therefore, the only obstacle to a fair and happy society against power seekers and abusers was a proactive and well-equipped populace who would fight back any potential tyrants. We have seen this time and time again: in the English Civil War, the French Revolution, the Haitan Revolution (which occured during the French Revolution), and many more. 


Now, however, these violent, although timeless, revolutions seem to subside in favor of less violent and more of a revolution of speech. These began first with the Civil Rights Movement, which relied not on spears and tridents (? wc) but rather on the press and patriotic speeches. A more recent example, albeit less patriotic and more infamous and famous, is the election of Trump and the so-feared "Rise of the Alt-Right." The media used fear-mongering to garner support for Trump's radical policy, that when looked with fear and hopelessness, seem *even* logical. Perhaps, a more positive example of a "speech" revolution would be the #MeToo movement, of how oppressed women found a way to rise up against their male oppressors, again, not with guns and bayonets, but with words and the Internet. 


This is what gaining fairness looks like. Thus, for us to ensure that the future generations live in a world 'fair'-er than ours, doesn't entail teaching them to fight or equipping them with knives. Rather, it means to teach them to think and to remove any doubt of expressing their ideas. Ensuring the future is more fair now involves more than just ensuring everyone has a voice—it is now about ensuring everyone has their *own* voice. 


What use is a voice, even a vocal one, who contributes nothing to the general discussion? What use is a voice that does not think for itself, but rather relies on the press, politicians, and sensationalist blogger? Perhaps, it would be helpful to think of these groups as today's version of power seekers—as power now is not seized by violence or force, but rather through public opinion. 


(Sidenote: People have thought that democracy would be the end to power imbalances and tyrants who should not hold power. After all, the displacement of power from few hands to the hands of everyone will ensure that the public chooses the leader it wants, right? However, the real determined ones are not stopped by this toy called democracy. Democracy to them is like a wall that one could just walk around—and the trail around the wall we have constructed has been so worn out now that it has been coined several names, including "populism," "media malaise," and most commonly, "fake news." 


Any poorly educated person, especially one without a stable life and living paycheck to paycheck, will appeal to the grandiose appeals of Mr. Trump and his likes. The reason *you* don't have a job? Streams of immigrants from the south! The reason *you* don't have a bigger house? Lazy immigrant workers living off America! The reason *you* pay such high taxes? Welfare queens of any minority race! 


Any educated person would just gloss over these arguments, commonly made on television to target poor, uneducated viewers. These seem hardly like any abuse of power—after all, everyone is entitled to their own opinion right? But if we think of it that they are manipulating fears and the instability of poor viewers to serve their own maligned interests, then their actions become more and more evil. 


Perhaps, their depravity is more visible after we look at their intentions. Media organizations utter the phrase "if it bleeds, it leads," almost as a motto. After all, TV channels that used more fear have higher ratings and more viewership, and thus, more money[citation]. 


Education proves to a man, to himself, that he is not just a machine capable of doing manual work. It proves to himself, that he can be greater than just a collection of particularly strong limbs. As soon as someone starts to degrade themselves from a human being to just a collection of strong limbs ready for work, is when they are ready, almost willing, to subject themselves to unfairness. This 'unfairness' could come in many forms: tyranny if that man is the whole nation, or smaller scale abuse. 


The best way to prevent the kinds of unfairness that make it to history textbooks is to prove that every human is capable of more than just manual work. If every human wants to achieve more, to have and *broadcast* their own voice, then any attempt of power abuse or unfairness will be quickly shut down. 


_____________________________________________________________


We all realize how important everybody's voice is. After all, democracy is just a collection of voices that make up a decision everybody can support. However, rarely have we heard of people attempting to 'hijack' almost, other's voice. This happens every day, nationwide. It may be happening as you read this: at the back of the living room, always there to fill the silence: TV (perhaps provide example?). 


TV has never been anything more than 'just TV'—low level entertainment for the masses. While it indeed appeals to all, its medium of flashing images, short news cliplets, and easy to understand scrolling headlines make it targeted to the uneducated and the poor—those who don't have access to much else in terms of content, like magazines. And what do the poor all have in common? They are living paycheck to paycheck, living an unstable life, are often very tired (from long days of working), want something absent-minded they can tune to at any time, and most importantly of all, living in fear. Fear, fear, fear is what all television channels think about. 


A fairer education contributes to a fairer future because it is a safeguard against the swaying current of journalism—it roots us in what is logic and sound, instead of what direction the media and politicians are trying to sway us to.


The prerequisite to any discussion about a fairer future will always be that everybody has a voice, and the more independent their voice, in other words, the more they think for themselves, the more “fair” the future will be. However, the fact that everybody has a voice is not enough. A voice rooted in sound education would always be better than a voice whose only foundation is the media. 


Education frees a man from any thought that he has to restrain his opinions. Education, when done without bias and without excessive government interference, can be a shield against those who try to sabotage weak minds.
______4/25
While it may not just be TV and other media that are exploiting this general uneducation of the masses to their advantage, it certainly is the biggest and widest-reaching one. Especially with bigger conglomerates than ever, where most of the stations’ interests lies in serving the higher-ups and increasing ratings. 


This effect almost sandwiches the smaller regional news stations that operate under the bigger conglomerates between their audience and the infinitely tall tower of “higher-ups” they report to. With no real sense of the purpose they serve to their community, all they have in mind is to please their bosses above. Frankly, their bosses don’t care about honest reporting or serving the general public, and instead only care about reporting the bosses up higher. This endless chain of reporting dilutes the down to the ground real purpose of any journalism—to inform the public. The consequences of this system is journalists are more focused on what looks good on their report, not what is good. 


Now, democracy is no longer the golden solution to such a broad concept as overall “fairness” in society. In fact, any golden solution that will exist will cease to be one as long as there are determined people willing to do whatever possible to sidestep these solutions. We are humans, after all. 


Therefore, we have to keep working towards “fairness,” because it is not a state that can be achieved. Society and fairness are like the similar poles of a magnet—the closer we get to fairness, there will always be the people who want to move it further away. 


Education is important because its opposite is disastrous, both to society and to the person. Uneducated means susceptible to any lies, baits, and grandiose claims. Uneducated means a lower quality of life, which means more dependence on mass mindless entertainment, which means more exposure to the very things that makes society less fair. 


Think of it like this: an educated person is “vaccinated” against the possible diseases of media malaise and politician promises. In addition to being vaccinated, that person lives far away from the slums, where rumors and disastrous ideas spread, like disease. Similarly, the educated person stays far away from the slums that is television and concerns themselves with thinking. The uneducated person concerns themselves with choosing a method of thinking broadcasted on television. These methods, however, are all dumbed down versions designed to support a particular political agenda, without all the consideration of the niches that a person who would think of these ideas for themselves would have arrived at. 
____4/26


Education guards against the new dangers borne with democracy, of misinformation and fear mongering. A fairer future is not guaranteed by a capable populace determined to ensure fairness through physical force. That may have been effective a few centuries ago, when society was much less advanced. Now, however, the battle for fairness occurs in the mind—as simply a capable body won’t win the war for fairness between the populace and the “bad guys” (wc). Now, a weak mind incapable of distinguishing truth from fiction and succumbing to human whims evoked on television is the same, perhaps, even worse, than one incapable of fighting against a tyrannous state. 


This change of the fight for fairness, from the physical to the mental, is not a particularly beneficial one. Although it has, indeed, eliminated much of the bloodshed common in revolutions, the mental battlefield for fairness veils what is happening, such that only a few at the top can see what is happening. And generally, the majority of the few able to see the battle for fairness are the ones pushing for more power and control and tyranny—the big corporates, politicians, celebrity media anchors. 


Education equips the average person with a mechanism for fighting back attempted intrusions on their mind, however tempting they may be to bite.


The advantages are already vast given our narrow look at only developed, western countries. If we “zoom out” and take a look at the developing countries whose education system remains nonexistent, then the benefits of universal education are even more prominent. Everyone knows—republicans, democrats, college graduates, and even the most radical of climate change deniers can’t deny the effect education will have on developing countries. What use is an essay, however, proclaiming the already well known benefits of education? 


In fact, what use is it for us Americans to marvel at the dazzling benefits of education, except to marvel that we have free, universal education ourselves? By looking at these developing countries, we are overlooking a bigger problem right here in our homeland. The reason why that problem is so easy to overlook is because it is hidden. 


We cannot see the struggle between the media and the minds of the people sitting at home. Some, the majority the educated, are winning the battle, while others, mostly uneducated, are succumbing to the flirtatious temptations of the media—everything from building a “great, big, wall” to outrageous immigration policies. There is no bloodshed, no historic “Fall of the Bastille,” and generally, no fighting spirit amongst the people, because there is no fight.


This fight is every man to himself. There is no way to tell an uneducated person without a stable roof to ignore the media, no way for the educated to get together and fight the media. There is, however, a way to prevent this from happening altogether: education. It is rarely the well educated and, consequently, the well-off that digest media lies. Education raises every person to this level, so they can be aware of what to ignore and what to take in. 
____29
A common saying is that democracy cannot happen without voices. Do we still, then, call a unison of speakerphones all connected to the one source of audio a collection of unique voices? Do we still then, call a voice without thought democracy? It is because everybody has a voice, but not everybody has thought. And it is thought that counts: not a loud, overbearing raspy human voice. 


A voice without education is similar to a car without gas, and vice versa, an education without a voice is similar to gas without a car. In one world, we have loud voices chanting nonsensical things in unison, whereas in the other world, we have scared people who would rather let someone else do the talking rather than protest what is so obviously wrong about the world around them. 


These are the 2 most important elements to fairness: voice, and education. 


Democracy guarantees the voice element of fairness. Democracy brings us halfway there. To get the ever-imagined fairness, we have to work on our education—on equiping our very powerful voices with even more powerful tools of thought. Only then can we get to the side where the grass is truly greener—by not skipping steps. 


Democracy is not the golden solution to fairness and its siblings. Democracy only guarantees that people can speak, but speaking alone isn’t what fairness is about. Everyone can speak, yet fairness is not flying everywhere on a banner in the wind. We also need education, and these two—education and voice—go hand in hand towards fairness.


_____2


Education brings content to a voice—as it alone is not enough to carry a person’s thoughts to the medium of democracy. 
As for the current reasons why education is important.
The war for fairness is nevertheless still happening, despite democracy. It is happening between the living rooms of the poor and the uneducated—flashing before their eyes before an equally sinister bright, neon advertisement. One side are the likes of CNN and Fox, and the other side are the tired eyes and passive minds of a nation of uneducated and overworked people. When the 6 o clock news starts playing right after these people have gone home from a long day of work, their brains are not ready to think actively and discern right from wrong. 


Looking more broadly at the benefits of nationwide, universal education, one can see far more striking and bigger advantages to just strengthening people’s voice. Better individuals, less homelessness, increased literacy, a more competitive global workforce, and more civic participation. These have all been proven and shown true benefits of education, but the underlying benefit is still the same: education empowers. It empowers their voice to be independent instead of based on false media claims




I vividly remember watching news on the TV on the couch with my parents, at the tender age of around 8 years old. Now, what a 8 year old be doing anywhere near a news channel is beyond my knowledge, but I was seated next to my 2 parents, and that meant everything else could be forgotten.
__
At that time, my only education was a few years of kindergarten my parents had signed me up as an alternative to child care. I had not known anything about the media, politics, nor my brain was developed enough to understand these issues. As such, I had no idea to simply ignore what nonsense the news anchors, and clenched my mom’s hand even tighter then before—only to see her face looking nonchalantly at the television screen, unfazed by all the threats the news anchor had made. 


I could understand why my parents were so unfazed now, 7 years later: they weren’t struggling. They weren’t living in a one story rented flat struggling off last month’s paycheck. They didn’t have to worry about bringing food on the table, or paying off rent. But most important of all, they were educated. Their education gave them a strong voice of their own rooted in what they truly believed—not something that the media could displace easily. 


Many others didn’t have an education. While their lack of education might bring about more important problems such as not being able to find a job, there is a very distinct difference between those with an education and without an education: their voice. Being uneducated doesn’t necessarily mean one doesn’t have a voice, rather, it means one who has a weak voice—its contents easily displaced by media half-truths and biases.


The broader benefits of education are known to all: higher wages, stable economy, longer lifespan, and more equality. While all of these benefits might be in the same direction as fairness, the most important thing that education does to people is empower their voice. Higher wages or a more satisfied population doesn’t matter if none of them are capable of expressing their own opinions—the central idea behind democracy.


The two elements to fairness are first, a voice, and second, an opinion. A voice without an opinion is as worthless to fairness and democracy as an opinion without a voice—they depend on each other to bring about fairness. 


Luckily, democracy has secured us our voice, and strict laws make it hard for anyone to prohibit another person from saying something. Having the ability to say and discuss freely doesn’t automatically bring fairness—the content of what is said is also important. 


What use is a voice when we all say the same things and rattle our ideas off of similar-minded people? Have all our ancestors fought for the so-deemed “valuable” democracy for all of just to waste our newfound freedom by not reaching out to different-minded groups?


Hiding in our own worlds of acceptance and righteousness doesn’t constitute fairness. Achieving true participation isn’t easy when human nature compells us to stay within our safe boundaries—enacting laws might make speech truly free, but the second step of using the free speech to reach fairness can only be achieved with education. 


Ensuring freedom of speech can be done externally through a good government, but ensuring that people don’t use their voice to further homogenize their group’s views is more difficult.  Nevertheless, it is generally accepted that more educated people will be more open-minded and participate in more discussions with opposing political groups. 


In addition, education cements a person’s voice in facts, from which they can build their opinions. Especially in a world of conflicting media set to exploit every whim of a human being to accomodate their agendas, those without any background or facts as a base will have trouble discerning truth from fiction when watching the news or deciding to vote. The power of education can be seen also, from the other side, through the eyes of extremist terrorists. With powerful religious education and indoctrination techniques, terrorist groups in the Middle East have managed to recruit many devout followers—no matter how absurd their ideology is from simply a human point of view.