“It's not what happens to you that matters. It's how you respond to what happens to you that makes a difference."


Do you think life is about the events in your life or how you respond to those events?


While many of us think that it is the events that make us react the way we do, the way we respond to those events actually shape our emotions and feelings. If we react positively towards a negative event in our life, we are not only happy when other people are sad, but we are also reacting positively also helps us to move on with our life, not stuck in one little event. Grieving over something that can be changed and will be changed is like staying in a burning house. We must escape before the grief consumes us and our lives. 
Although it is very natural for us to hold on to our sadness, we have to look at the bigger picture, and we can see that moving on is always the best option, but it may not be the favorable option for many. When I was living in Vietnam with my family and my cousin, we had a cat that everyone loved and cared for. Sometimes, my brother, my cousin, and me would fight over who gets to walk the cat outside. Unfortunately, our cat died not long ago, and we had to live with it. However, my cousin kept remembering the cat and  grieving over it, but our family moved on with our lives, and then, we forgot about the cat. However, my cousin still had the death of the cat fresh in his mind. While we were happy and the grief of the death of our cat was fading from our minds, my cousin was stuck in one single event that would probably meant little to him once he forgot it. 
However, the events in our life DO make some impact on the decisions that we make. Our lives are not totally governed by our reactions, because the events impact our reactions, and therefore, our life too. One person couldn’t possibly remain positive for the whole duration of negative events, and still be good. And one person could be negative about a positive event, and be bad. The things that happen to us make some difference in our life, but the thoughts and the actions that we take are the ones that really do make a difference. 
        The death of my cousin’s and our cat made him sad, because he reacted negatively, but we reacted positively by moving on with our lives, and we were not sad at all. Therefore, it is how you respond to an event that changes your life, because my cousin and I had the same event, but our reaction was different, and that produced different results.