“It's not what happens to you that matters. It's how you respond to what happens to you that makes a difference."


Do you think life is about the events in your life or how you respond to those events?


While many of us think that it is the events that make us react the way we do, the way we respond to those events actually shape our emotions and feelings. If we react positively towards a negative event in our life, we are not only happy when other people are sad, but we are also reacting positively also helps us to move on with our life, not stuck in one little event. Grieving over something that can be changed and will be changed is like staying in a burning house. We must escape before the grief consumes us and our lives. 
Although it is very natural for us to hold on to our sadness, we have to look at the bigger picture, and we can see that moving on is always the best option, but it may not be the favorable option for many. When I was in Vietnam as a student, I had many friends who were very smart and academic, and they often achieved very high grades in the frequent tests. Once, though, one of my friends was extremely saddened and depressed at the quality of his score on a test, while all of the others got relatively good marks. In fact, I believe that the test was just an accident, and it did not represent his skills whatsoever. He thought it was though. This made him really bad for an amount of time, and instead of just looking to improve and get over the grief, he just held on to it.  
However, the events in our life DO make some impact (but very little) on the decisions that we make. Our lives are not totally governed by our reactions, because the events impact our reactions, and therefore, our life too. One person couldn’t possibly remain positive for the whole duration of negative events, and still be good. And one person could be negative about a positive event, and be bad. The things that happen to us make some difference in our life, but the thoughts and the actions that we take are the ones that really do make a difference. 
        The death of my cousin’s and our cat made him sad, because he reacted negatively, but we reacted positively by moving on with our lives, and we were not sad at all. Therefore, it is how you respond to an event that changes your life, because my cousin and I had the same event, but our reaction was different, and that produced different results.