Foods help people survive, but they are not always good. Some of the most popular food in a restaurant are either super healthy or tastes delicious. However, some of the healthy foods are does not taste that delicious to me, such as the baby spinach, which tastes very weird. However, healthy foods make you very healthy and you are less likely to get sick if you eat a lot of healthy foods in your life. In fact, the food guide of Canada says that you should eat six servings of vegetables everyday. Today, I am going to tell you the worst food I have ever tasted in my life that I could recall.
My mom is a very open-minded chef, when she is learning to make a new type of food, she always look at several ingredients and combine them all, she also makes her own ingredient to make it better. So in one day, she was learning to make a new type of soup, seaweed soup. When I tasted it, it was very bad, the smell and the taste. I tried to make it better by adding some of the ingredients that I usually like. While I was eating my soup, my dad and my brother was still trying to make it better. I learned has not to get that much when you have not tried the food ever in your life, since I has loved seaweed and this is seaweed soup, but there is some weird chemical that makes it like some seaweed covered in slime. I had tasted it before I even know what it is, I mean specifically. So that was one of the food that I has made a mistake getting to much at the beginning, when I do not even know what it tastes like. Another example of a food that I hate is a special kind of milk. The milk is like condensed into solid on some parts, which is what makes it so gross.


Because foods are so important, you should love everything that is edible, such as the one that I just mentioned, seaweed soup. But that is not possible all the time, which is very bad. Also, do not judge a food when you have not tried it before, it is like judging a book when you have just looked at it's front cover. The good thing about trying the food first is because what if it is your favorite food and you do not know that.