Should kids be allowed to watch television?        
When I was young, my father allowed me to watch as much television as I want as long as I finished my schoolwork and the homework that my father gave me. Sometimes, I would finish my homework very fast and watch TV. However, most of the time, finishing the homework was an arduous task and by the time I am done, it was already past bedtime. Now, I have realized that I learn most of the really basic things from watching television. However, although watching too much TV can have the opposite effect, television is very useful because of the information and common sense it teaches. 
        Many channels on TV teach children about many things, such as the alphabet, vocabulary, and places. Channels such as Mythbusters and Discover can surprise children. If these channels were not there, children would have never known what the arcane outdoors were like or how bulletproof glass works. Also, children are motivated to imitate their favorite characters. The characters may learn to live healthily, be environmentally friendly, and how to act when there is a bully. However, this can also have a negative result because seeing a character kick someone else may motivate a kid to do so too. In addition, scientists say the first 2 years of a baby’s life are the most critical because they form the foundation for subsequent growth. Therefore, learning about Thomas Edison and his inventions may build the foundation and motivation for the child to make and invent new things. Watching TV is very good for young children
        On the other hand, some channels on TV are only for adults to watch and it can be costly to buy TV channels. This may have been a problem long ago, but with our technology today, there is a wide variety of TV Parental Control Programs that block out certain channels and just leave out the apposite ones. Sure, the process may be arduous, selecting the program that best suits one’s needs, then learning how to program it, then trading astringent remarks with the store manager when the program does not work. But at least, it is better than letting children watch inappropriate channels or not letting them watch TV at all. Also, children who cannot watch TV usually do something else that is worse such as looking for junk food and breaking dishes while doing so. However, buying TV channels can be very costly for assiduous families with a low income. Those families use almost all of their money by the end of each month, which is when they get new money. Fortunately, they can just buy an archaic television set, and just purchase one educational channel. Also, adults can teach children about the tricks of advertising, about one company saying aspersions to other companies. Although there are many dangers of watching TV, they rarely happen and children can learn lots from them.
        Watching too much TV can have a very bad effect on children, but the right amount can promote good behavior. Children learn many things from watching television. There are many false assumptions about television, saying that it is bad for kids and they should not watch it until they are teenagers. However, the answer is clear, kids today can benefit from television a lot.