There is an immigrant Vietnamese family of 2 middle-aged parents and 2 sons in a cramped 1 bedroom apartment in suburban Mississauga, situated besides Toronto. The parents work from 10AM to 10PM in a corner nail salon, painting nails with fake powder and dealing with grumpy customers. In the Vietnamese immigrant community, they are living the equivalent of the American Dream. 


History has dictated that first-generation immigrants will be nail salon workers. From Vancouver to Toronto to New York, if you peer into one of the little Vietnamese-run nails salons on street corners, you will see middle-aged immigrants, some illegal, who can barely speak English hunched over on their stools, meticulously working others’ nails. There is no thought of any other career—some require too much English, some require too many certifications, and some (e.g. fast food worker) carry such a negative stigma in the Vietnamese community, that immigrants are willing to sacrifice a lower wage and nonexistent workplace safety.


These families are not refugees, nor are they poor. Some were middle-class families who wanted a new life in America. Some were office workers who abandoned a stable life in Vietnam in favor of more opportunities for their children. In our case, the parents were full-fledged accountants for a big firm before they immigrated. Now, they work at a nail salon on the outskirts of Chinatown. 


“It’s all for the second generation,” the mom explains while cooking soup from a stove that has lost its front cover. “The kids are studying most of the time, because, we tell them, that if they don’t study, then they will end up like us: having to work over 12 hours a day and some weekends just to survive.” She doesn’t speak with sadness or regret, only the convincing authority that all parents hold.


“We would be back in Vietnam comfortably working only weekdays if it wasn’t for them,” the dad frowns and stares towards the ceiling, as if reminiscing the life he could have had. We pause for 5 seconds, none of us saying anything. 
“Go and help your mom set the table!” he shouts, expecting to be heard through the wall.  
“No. No need. Just let them study. I can do myself.” his wife quickly reassures. Then, she says the same thing once again, just a bit louder, so her kids can hear and keep on studying.


They tell us stories of the other Vietnamese immigrants in the community while the children eat quietly. I could see that the children were listening to our conversation, by their chuckles and small smiles whenever the parents made a joke. Throughout all of the stories they told me, one theme stayed similar: all the parents worked in nail salons. “There’s just no escaping out of it,” she said. 


Unless you already had skills that were applicable in Canada, your only option of getting a job was a nails salon.