Vietnamese Immigrants and Nails Salons: A Love-Hate Relationship


There is an immigrant Vietnamese family of 2 middle-aged parents and 2 sons in a cramped 1 bedroom apartment in suburban Mississauga, situated besides Toronto. The parents work from 10AM to 10PM in a corner nail salon, painting nails with fake powder and dealing with grumpy customers. In the Vietnamese immigrant community, they are living the equivalent of the American Dream. 


These families are not refugees, nor are they poor. Some were middle-class families who wanted a new life in America. Some were office workers who abandoned a stable life in Vietnam in favor of more opportunities for their children. In our case, the parents were full-fledged accountants for a big firm before they immigrated. Now, they work at a nail salon for less than minimum wage on the outskirts of Chinatown. 


“It’s all for the second generation,” the children’s mother explains while cooking soup from a stove that has lost its front cover. She’s frugal that way. “The kids are studying most of the time, because, we tell them, that if they don’t study, then they will end up like us: having to work over 12 hours a day and some weekends just to survive.” She doesn’t speak with sadness or regret, only with the convincing authority that all parents hold.


“We would be back in Vietnam working only weekdays if it wasn’t for the children. We come here just for their future.” the dad frowns and stares towards the ceiling, as if reminiscing the life he could have had. We pause for about three seconds, none of us saying anything. 
“Go and help your mom set the table!” he shouts, expecting to be heard through the wall.  
“No. No need. Just let them study. I can do myself.” his wife quickly reassures. Then, she says the same thing once again, just a bit louder, so her kids can hear and keep on studying.


They tell us stories of the other Vietnamese immigrants in the community while the children eat quietly. I could see the children’s chuckles and hidden smiles whenever the parents made a joke or said something funny. Throughout all of the stories they told me, one theme stayed similar: all the first generation parents worked in nail salons. Whether they were a doctor or an electrician back in Vietnam, “There’s just no escaping out of it,” she said. 


Unless you already had skills that were applicable in Canada, your only option of getting a job was a nails salon. No matter how hard you worked, or what skills you had, whether a doctor or a plumber, your only option to become successful in Canada was to work as much as possible, so your kids have the best chance. And these kids really do have a good chance.


One will be graduating medical school in 2019, and the others receive the best grades in their school. The 10 and 13 year old children are involved in multiple school sports and attend the, according to their parents, “the most selective high school in the Toronto area.” Perhaps, the Vietnamese qualities of hard work shine through the struggles of immigration. Perhaps, they realized how hard their parents were working, only to secure a future for them.