Vietnamese Immigrants and Nails Salons: A Love-Hate Relationship


There is an immigrant Vietnamese family of 2 middle-aged parents and 2 sons in a cramped 1 bedroom apartment in suburban Mississauga, situated besides Toronto. The parents work from 10AM to 10PM in a corner nail salon, painting nails with fake poison and dealing with grumpy customers. In the Vietnamese immigrant community, they are living the equivalent of the American Dream. 


The stagnant smell of nail polish and acrylics engulfed me as I entered the nail salon. Aside from the small glass door covered with ads, there was no ventilation--no windows, vents, or fans. Mr. and Mrs. Nguyen must have noticed my discomfort. “Don’t worry. It’s normal. All the other nail salons in this area are like this.”


These families are not refugees, nor are they poor. Some were middle-class families who wanted a new life in America. Some were office workers who abandoned a stable life in Vietnam in favor of more opportunities for their children. Mr. and Mrs. Nguyen, 40 and 41 years old, were full-fledged accountants for a big firm before they immigrated. Now, they work at a corner nail salon for less than minimum wage on the outskirts of Chinatown. 


“It’s all for the second generation,” the children’s mother, Mrs.Nguyen, explains while cooking soup from a stove that has lost its front cover. She’s frugal that way. “The kids are studying most of the time, because, we tell them, that if they don’t study, then they will end up like us: having to work over 12 hours a day and some weekends just to survive.” She doesn’t speak with sadness or regret, only with the convincing authority that all parents hold.


“We would be back in Vietnam working only weekdays if it wasn’t for the children. We come here just for their future.” the dad frowns and stares towards the ceiling, as if reminiscing the life he could have had. We pause for about three seconds, none of us saying anything. 
“Go and help your mom set the table!” he shouts, expecting to be heard through the wall.  
“No, no! No need. Just let them study. I can do myself.” his wife quickly reassures. Then, she says the same thing once again, just a bit louder, so her kids can hear and keep on studying.


They tell us stories of the other Vietnamese immigrants in the community while the children eat quietly. I could see the children’s chuckles and hidden smiles whenever the parents made a joke or said something funny. Throughout all of the stories they told me, one theme stayed similar: all the first generation parents worked in nail salons. Whether they were a doctor or an electrician back in Vietnam, their fate was tied to the nail salon. “There’s just no escaping out of it,” she said. 


Unless you already had skills that were applicable in Canada, your only option of getting a job was a nail salon. For example, of the 581,946 Vietnamese[1] living in California, around 200,000 are licensed nail salon workers[2]. As for the whole of US, 48% of all licensed nails workers are Vietnamese.  


No matter how hard you worked, or what skills you had, whether a doctor or a plumber, your only option to become successful in Canada was to work as much as possible, so your kids have the best chance. And these kids really do have a good chance.


One will be graduating medical school in 2019, and the others receive the best grades in their school. The 10 and 13 year old children are involved in multiple athletics and attend one of the most selective schools in Toronto.


Perhaps, this resigned mindset of many Vietnamese immigrants--that the first generation immigrant’s life is tied to the nail salon--is the reason why so many second-generation Vietnamese have a stable life. Or, perhaps it is a false misconception borne from the origins of the Vietnamese immigrant community. Misconception or not, however, the nail salon serves as a painful stepping stone, taunting the first-generation immigrants bound to the salon’s 10 hour workdays and acrylic poison. But for the second-generation, the nail salon brings back the nostalgia of their parents’ hard-working nature, of eating ramen alone on weekends, and of their parent’s 1 AM coughing fits. 
________________
[1] http://www.vasummit2011.org/docs/research/The%20Vietnamese%20Population%202010_July%202.2011.pdf
[2] https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs10900-008-9107-7