Experiment 1: 
Qualitative Observations
	Before
	During
	After
	Copper chloride solution
	Blue, transparent solution
Room temperature
Weighs similar to water


	Heats up vigorously


	Changes to red color
Less transparent, solids in suspension
	Aluminum foil
	Not very heavy
	Forms a brown solid
	

	Copper precipitate
	

	Solid sinks to the bottom of the solution
	The brown solid seems heavier than the original aluminum foil
	



Quantitative Observations
	Before
	During
	After
	Copper chloride solution
	0.135 Absorbance at 480 nm


25 °C


	Heats up vigorously


	Changes to red color
Less transparent, solids in suspension
	Aluminum foil
	Not very heavy
	Forms a brown solid
	

	Copper precipitate
	

	Solid sinks to the bottom of the solution
	The brown solid seems heavier than the original aluminum foil
	

After 3 days, before stirring:
* Red
* Solid
* Near the base
* Semi-clear water
* Dust like
* Water no longer blue
* Sediment coming out of water


After 3 days, after stirring:
* Consistent, deeper red colour
* Milky
* Some particles undissolved on the bottom
* Darker after stirring
* Concentration contour lines from different light refractive indexes of different concentrations. 




Quantitative (After 3 days and after stirring): Temperature, the existence of Cu2+, mass, change in density




Procedure for measuring temperature quantitatively
1. Record the temperature of the starting blue solution of copper chloride using a thermometer. Make sure that the tip of the thermometer is in the solution rather than touching the walls of the beaker, as this may change the recorded temperature significantly.
2. Submerge a known amount of aluminum foil into the solution, watching the temperature rise in the thermometer. 
3. Watch the thermometer carefully as the reaction continues vigorously. 
4. Watch the thermometer until the temperature begins to drop, again making sure the tip is in the solution and not touching the walls of the beaker.
5. Record the maximum temperature reached by the reaction.


Procedure for measuring absorbance
1. Pour a sample of the starting copper chloride solution into a beaker.
2. Pour the solution from the beaker into the cuvette, making sure to only touch the frosted portions of the glass.
3. Record the absorbance of the starting solution.
4. Run the reaction using the steps outlined the previous procedure. 
5. With the resulting mixture, pour into a gravity filtration setup and let the solid brown copper dry.
6. The filtrate should be poured into a cuvette and the resulting absorbance be measured


Procedure for measuring mass
1. Weigh the filtered solid+filter paper from the procedure for measuring absorbance using an analytical balance.
2. Subtract the above mass by the mass of the filter paper (determined from an analytical balance), giving us the mass of the brown solid. 




Experiment 2


Before:
Pure water, no discolouration
Phenolphthalein mixes easily
Calcium is in chunks


After:
Temperature rises rapidly (condensation on beaker due to evaporation, feels hot to touch)
Pink colour of solution
Calcium dissolves into water
White solid precipitate near the bottom of the beaker
Hydrogen gas is released




Quantitative: absorbance, mass, temperature, gas evolved
Procedure for running reaction 2
1. Measure 100 mL of water in a 150 mL beaker. 
2. Add ~3 drops of phenolphthalein using the medicine dropper into the 150 mL beaker.
3. Measure out around 1 g of solid calcium, noting the mass of the calcium solid.
4. Add the weighed solid to the 150 ml beaker


Procedure for measuring temperature, measuring mass of filtered solid, and absorbance
        Use the same procedure as reaction 1, except with different reactants.


Procedure for measuring volume of gas evolved
1. Fill the eudiometer full with tap water.
2. Cover the open end of the eudiometer with your finger, and invert the tube so the open end is submerged into the 150 mL water beaker.
3. Clamp the eudiometer with a burette clamp on a ring stand.
4. Cap the 150 mL Erlenmeyer with the provided cork cap and submerge the end of the attached hose under the eudiometer tube. Any gas evolved from the reaction should pass through this tube and up the eudiometer, displacing water.
5. Wait until the reaction is finished (bubbling stops, mixture cools down) and record the total volume of gas shown on the eudiometer.