Squamish, with the beautiful Shannon Falls and abundant hiking and climbing trails, is a great place for me and my family to camp and have fun with our friends. We first knew of it last year, when the organization that was organizing the camp invited us to go there. Last year, since it was my first time there, I was very nervous and knew little about the activities that would happen. However, all in all, it was a very fun experience, and I was ready to go camping in Squamish again. 
        As our car finally reached the camp parking grounds, I immediately went out of the car escape the toxic smell of the air in the car. Then, we began unloading tents, sleeping bags, food, and other stuff to our campsite that we shared with other people who were invited too. After all of the unloading and setting up, I went hiking up the Shannon Falls. There were three sightseeing areas, called first peak, second peak, and third peak. The trail there included no flat land, instead, there were stairs everywhere, because it was a mountain, the trail had no distance to spare for flat areas. Sometimes, the stairs were easy to climb, however, most of the time, they were very steep and hard, making people rest more. Finally, there were no more stairs, however, this part was harder because the rocks were slippery and more steep without anything to grip on, that means we would have to literally climb up. One time, I almost fell a few meters down while I was trying to climb up a rock. However, my friend saved me by dragging me back up. 
        Then, on the journey down, we got lost when we were finally out of the woods, because we made a wrong turn, which led us north of the campground. Therefore, we had two options, run across the highway and walk south to get to camp, or go back up and turn the other way. Since the way up was even harder because it was not even ground, we decided to take the risk and walk south. Unlike being in a car, walking was very scary because the cars were going at a very high speed and we were very close to them. What was more scary than the cars were the motorcycles that went super fast. I and the others were so scared that we decided to climb over the lane and walk on the grass. It did help, however, we were still pretty close to the cars. After ten minutes of walking dangerously, I thought that we were on the wrong way, but I abandoned it because