Camping
 Even though there are abundant camping places in BC, Squamish, with its beautiful Shannon Falls and abundant trails. We first knew of it last year, when the organization that was planning the camp invited us to go there. Last year, since it was my first time camping there, I was very nervous and knew little about the activities that would happen. However, all in all, it was a very fun experience, and I was ready to go camping in Squamish again. 
        Finally,  we reached the campground after a long ride. Then, we began unloading tents, sleeping bags, food, and other things to our campsite that we will share with the other people who were invited too. After all of the unloading and setting up, I went hiking up the Shannon Falls. There were three sightseeing areas, called first peak, second peak, and third peak. The trail there included no flat land, instead, there were stairs everywhere, and because it was a mountain, the trail had no distance to spare for flat areas. Sometimes, the stairs were easy to climb, but most of the time, they were very steep and hard, making people rest more. Finally, we reached the peaks, where there were no more stairs, but these parts were harder to climb because the rocks are slippery and more steep without anything to grip on, which means we had to literally climb up. One time, I almost fell a few meters down while I was trying to climb up a rock. However, my friend saved me by dragging me up. 
        On the journey down, we got lost in the woods and when we were finally out of the woods, we realized we had made made a wrong turn, which led us north of the campground. Therefore, we had two options, run across the highway and walk south to get to camp, or go back up and turn the other way. Since the way up was even harder because it was not even ground, we decided to take the risk and walk south. Unlike being in a car, walking was very scary because the cars were going at a very high speed and we were very close to them. What was scarier than the cars were the motorcycles that went even faster. My friends and I were so scared that we decided to cross the lane and walk on the grass. It did help, but we were still pretty close to the cars. After ten minutes of walking dangerously, I thought that we were on the wrong way, but I abandoned it because I saw a sign that said a camp was near, so I assumed that it must be the camp that we were staying at. After a while, we finally reached the camp, and I was safe. 
        After one more day of doing random activities and playing volleyball, we drove for two hours back to our house. I was quite sad because our fun trip had passed by so quickly, but I was glad because my muscles seemed to be tightening up and they needed a rest. At home, I began to do my homework and the normal tasks that I needed to do everyday. Although the aching of the muscles in my feet really hurted, I think that sightseeing the beautiful BC from the top of the peaks were worth it.