An Experience That Taught Me a Lesson
Through the years, I have been warned countless times about not finishing drinks and juices overnight, as they may become inedible when not refrigerated overnight. When my parents scolded me, I just listened with only a part of my attention focused. My parents call this “going in one ear and out the other, just like wind”. I think this meant that I only perceived it for a little amount of time until I forgot it. Anyways, they kept on saying warnings while I kept on listening and forgetting, but the last time that I forgot, my parents decided to try something new: whipping. 
As I was doing my homework, I suddenly felt parched, so I decided to go to the kitchen to get some water. However, I found a box of coconut water yelling for my attention, so instead of drinking normal water, I opened the can of coconut water and drank it. It was way better than water. I left it on the windowsill on my side because I was worried that I would spill it on the computer, another experience that I had learned from. Then, at night I went to sleep, forgetting that I had not finished the can of coconut water sitting by the windowsill. Tomorrow morning, as I was eating breakfast, preparing to go to school, my dad found the half-full coconut water can that I had drank last night. Suddenly, he shook his head and took a stick. I realized with horror that he was going to spank me! And then, the stick hit with not much speed, but taught me a lesson that I will, probably, never forget again.  I suddenly realized that words had little effect on me, but the actions that would get my attention had much effect. In Vietnam, my dad whipped and spanked me a lot of times, because I was naughty and he was tired of reminding a lot of times. 
The past times that I had forgotten a drink was not as memorable and didactic as this one. My dad just said, “Don’t do that again.” Although many people and organizations have quoted that using words to teach and not actions like spanking or whipping are more effective, I think the opposite. As long as it does not alienate the child, I think spanking and whipping is way more effective than just words because it is like a consequence for doing something bad. Although after the spanking, I was a bit uncomfortable with my father, after one day, the relationship between my father and I was fine as if my father had not spanked me just yesterday. If my father had not used actions against me, I would have not learned the lesson of not leaving juices and other perishable drinks not in the refrigerator. In Vietnam, spanking, no matter how much force, was perfectly legal for parents. I think that Canadians should make that rule, even though it may cause some bad relationships with the parent and the children. The parents are supposed to protect the child, and spanking is one of the effective ways to do that. Without spanking, the child would end up homeless, or would be a very bad person. 
The coconut water experience really taught me a lesson, instead of the other encounters with forgetting juices, because my parents tried something new as a punishment for me. If my parents just did what they do the other times I forgot my drink and left it overnight, I still would not have learned my lesson and I would just forget what they said in like three days or so and leave my drink out for it to perish overnight. Although the relationship between me and my father was a bit uncomfortable, it would still be awkward if my parents scolded me, so there are no changes in the relationship.