My Brother
Having a brother to play with is always nice, but arguing and fighting with them is not. On countless occasions, my brother and I have fought, argued, and wrestled with one another for the pride, the control, and the good feeling of seeing the other one lose. Many people, including my parents, say that arguing is not good, and try to make harmony, but I partly believe that they are wrong. Also, he annoys me a lot by hugging and tries to distract me when I am reading or studying. Also, when my mom cooks the food that he really likes, he tries to steal mine when he is finished with his food. Although having a brother is nice because I can play with him when I am bored, I am not very enthusiastic about having a brother because he annoys me very much. 
When I am just doing my own thing, my brother suddenly comes and hugs and kisses me. At first, I was fine with that. However, now, I hate it because I do not like being restrained and saliva all over my face. My mom and dad always says that it is because my brother loves me, but I do not think so, because I think he did it to show me who is the boss and teach me to not bother him again. I also think he has fun watching me cry and lose easily over his power. After that, he would say, “Sorryyy” in a coaxing voice, just like a thief shouting, “Thief! Thief! Thief!” Sometimes though, I would be welcome to hug him after he takes a bath and I was sweating. I would be able to see the indecisiveness in his eyes, because he loves to hug me, but I am very sweating and I smell very bad after tennis. 
In addition to the bear hugging and kissing, he also finds every way to make me mad such as by touching me with the very dirty dishwashing gloves and singing loudly while I am reading or studying. Now, I know that when he sings, he is not trying to annoy me. However, when I tell him to stop singing, he knows that I am annoyed by it, and sings in a more annoying tone. Then, he is harder to stop because he has fun annoying me and making me mad. Also, sometimes, when I am writing essays, he comes over and reads it, forcing me to close the browser. However, he pushes me out and opens it again, then reading my essays. He knew I would be hopeless because he is stronger than me and I cannot do anything, so I just watched. After he got control of the computer, he would look back at me with a wicked smile while I tried to attack weakly at him. Then, to annoy me more, he would read the essay out loud. 
However, having a brother is still nice because I can play with my brother whenever I am bored or when I do not have anyone to play with. There have been moments where I completely love my brother and moments where I do not like my brother at all. However, I still have to appreciate the fact that my brother have helped me become a better person in many occasions. The only thing that I do not like about my brother is his hugging and kissing, the other things, I am partly fine with.