Hike Around Buntzen Lake
There are many places to enjoy the lush greenery of BC while also exercising the body through hikes. A mix of both, the Buntzen Lake Trail, followed by the Diez Vistas Trail offer beautiful sites and ample places to test one’s balance while the steep cliffs use every opportunity to trip us as we hopelessly slid down the hills. Luckily, during my trip after brooking the steep climbs and rapid descents, we were lucky to escape the deceptive mountains and the steep cliffs that weakened us until all of our body parts hurted like never before. 
After walking the first half of the trail, we ate lunch. After I had finished my subway bread my mother made, I started taking pictures of the beautiful Buntzen Lake. Applying what I had learned from the things I learned about photography at home, I took a landscape picture of Buntzen Lake. It looked good, but I still preferred to make some adjustments that would have been possible if I had the heavy and robust camera at home, instead of the little iPhone camera. Then, I sat walked around, waiting for my other family members to finish their lunch. Then, I checked the GPS, and saw that we would have to climb over 100 meters in just 150 meters of trail. I realized that the trail would have to be very steep. After we finished our lunch, we walked to the other side of Buntzen Lake and hiked. At first, I was confounded because we were not going up as the GPS told us, but instead, we were going down! Luckily though, we started to enter the forests and began the long and tiring climb up. 
After an hour of non-stop climbing, I realized that we had not covered much distance because we were not walking at a normal pace. Instead, we were walking up the tall steps of the trail. At last, I was finally relieved when we started going down. And, to make sure there was no more climbing, I checked the GPS, and found that we would be going down for at least another 100 meters. However, despite my happiness for some downhill parts, I longed going up when we finally reached the peak of the mountain because going downhill was so dangerous! Fortunately, my dad bolstered me when the hills were very steep and covered with broke sticks, which made them more slippery. We were lucky that we had gone counter-clockwise, because downhill on this one was less steep. At last, we finally reached equal ground and started walking, as a cooldown, to the East Side of Buntzen Lake. Finally, we reached the parking lots, where I must say over 100 cars are parked side by side. 
Although I could have injured myself in Mother Nature’s baleful hands more than once, I still enjoyed the trail very much, and I must say this is one of the hardest trails I had gone to, besides the Shannon Falls one. My largest regret on this one was forgetting to bring the camera we had, because I was sure I could have won the Photo Contest on vancouvertrails.com. Anyways, I would never, ever go to this trail again because it is just so hard and challenging, but I can hike up to the first half, then hike back to the parking lot.