Section A






Section C
Which one of the philosophes did you most admire during your rule of France?


Philosophes? Those little all-talk do-nothing old men who sit in coffee shops and bicker about useless matters all day? Ha! I’m better than that! 


But to pick one out of the 3 most honourable old useless men, Voltaire, Rousseau, and Montesquieu, I would pick Voltaire. He had truly believed in absolute monarchy power and he is right. Freedom of religion is paramount to the success of any society: as any belief in a higher deity only serves to satisfy our useless human desires. The higher deity occupies the space in the brain that could be used for nationalism. I AM the higher deity, the god, and the everything. Religion distracts the people.  Of course he is not right on any matter, unlike me. And as with any homo sapien, I believe that I am perfectly, 100%-ly, and Napoleon-Bonapart-ly right. 
  

Rousseau is an alright fellow. I read his works at 12 years old, quite a good writer he is. But as I grew older, his ideas grew less appealing and Voltaire’s more. 


What is the difference in you and Louis (the previous king), you two are both tyrants, no?
Well, tyrants is a bit wrong and unpatriotic when used to describe the greatest leader in the world, no? Louis was a homeless know-nothing beggar who somehow found his way into Royal court and destroyed the country? I, ME!, ME, I, restored the country! Not Louis! It was ME! 
There is a difference between being a tyrant and being harsh. Being harsh breeds the France I had ruled. Being a tyrant breeds France at all other times in history.


Describe some of your accomplishments.
Well, first of all, my great Napoleonic Code was, perhaps, no I meant definitely, the greatest work of humanity. Ever. In my Napoleonic Code, I guaranteed people the rights that they deserved. You help improve our society, you get rights. You don’t help, you don’t get rights. You fight for our nation, you get rights; you stay home and knit, you get no rights. You build new roads, you get rights;As simple as that. Yet, such a simple yet elegant piece of work put together our entire nation and made France great again.
And then talk about education and public works and battles and idk


Why were you so adamant in disadvantaging (?) women in the Napoleonic Code?
Look, women don’t matter. Do women fight at the frontlines and risk their lives? No. Are women educated? No. Are women rich? No. What do they contribute to our society overall? Nothing. Therefore, we should give them nothing. They don’t deserve it. A woman is the property of her father or her husband. She is a property; not a scholar, not a soldier. She is merely a person who is used to feed the men and the children. Women should stick to knitting. 


If men and women were truly equal, then why did men gain superiority over women as society progressed? Just this fact assures that men and women are different: in the way that men are better and women are weaker. If we have worked this hard to gain superiority, then why should we lose it all in the whiff of a moment? 


And why should I be defending my own choices? I am always correct. 


Women are useless all they do is make clothes make food make babies


Why did you proclaim yourself emperor?
(Shrugs) Because I wanted to. Why did you proclaim yourself interviewer?


What would you say to those who feel you betrayed the ideals of the French Revolution?
There is a difference in betraying the ideals of the French Revolution and figuring out your own method for making things work. The French revolution was caused by a shortage of food and government inefficacy. I solved those problems. What are they complaining about? I give them food, I give them schools, I give them harbors, I give them roads, and I give them PRIDE (different meaning for alan t). If they don’t want these things, then they can move to rural Britain and live a life of feeding cows and pigs. Go ahead. The Continental System isn’t blocking you.


Section D


Looking back, would you say it [the conquest of Europe] was successful or not?
Definitely successful. 
Could you please elaborate?
Successful. I don’t like to divulge on matters of which there is no other side. It is successful. Period. I enriched my country, expanded its territory. And instilled pride into my citizens. What better could any emperor ask for? Well, except for the Russia thing. But Russians will always be Russians. When they are not freezing everything to death, they are putting everything on fire except for henry. Henry is never on fire :( :(. 


Was your support of nationalism in Europe genuine or merely a trick to gain the trust and support of the people you subjugated? 
Questions. Not essays. And why in the world would you think a single thing I do is genuine? Nothing I do or say is genuine. Well, except for the above sentence. 


I needed nationalism to be able to conquer the inferior countries without much resistance. It is called being clever: to war without having to expend troops. 


Why did you attempt to impose the Continental System?
To cut off trade with Britain and to attempt to weaken it. Well, I emphasize the word attempt because it was really an attempt. Britain was our main enemy and rival, and we thought that it was an island would help us. Unfortunately, it didn’t. 


What would you have done differently?
I wish I could have seen the Russians and their stupid fire trick before we all died. That certainly would have helped. But again, all “good” things die. And so do I. Even if I had seen through their strategy, I would someday be captured or killed. But I am most proud of my legacy. Even if I die, I will always be remembered: in France, in Europe, on earth, and in the history books. 
Section E 


Have you tried reading about yourself in history textbooks?
Read about myself! Only an arrogant and selfish emperor would do that. Not me! 
Oh Gosh, but I can’t help it. Tell me, what does it say about me? Any good things? What about the Russian campaign? What weaklings they are, burning their own towns and villages! Don’t they have any sense of pride or nationalism? Or is it all stuck up the Czar’s snowy ass


Is there anything about my stomach cancer? Let me tell you: that DID not happen. The Russians poisoned me! What idiots. I did not have stomach cancer! I don’t die to such earthly diseases. The slavs had poisoned me. They should be turned into slaves working for France! The Slavs to Slaves movement! Slavs to Slaves! Slavs to Slaves!






Do you think a more democratic government would have been more successful in your time?
My army has grown too massive, my country too large, and my resources too vast. Do you think the stupid English Parliaments would be able to handle such resources? No—we would be arguing over whether to send 1000 soldiers or 1001 soldiers to fight. 


Dictatorship with a bad leader crumbles with respect to time. Dictatorship with any human like me rises to power with respect to time. 
And plus, I hate everything British. Even saying the name Britain appeals to my sense of disgust. Ugh! To even let my country be invaded by British ideals and government would make me cringe.