Section A






Section C
Which one of the philosophes did you most admire during your rule of France?


Philosophes? Those little all-talk do-nothing old men who sit in coffee shops and bicker about useless matters all day? Ha! I’m better than that! 


But to pick one out of the 3 most honourable old useless men, Voltaire, Rousseau, and Montesquieu, I would pick Voltaire. He had truly believed in absolute monarchy power and he is right. Freedom of religion is paramount to the success of any society: as both of us had thought. 
But Voltaire is wrong on some topics, unlike me. As with any homo sapien, I believe that I am completely right on the matters which he is wrong—for example, warfare. It is a method to enrich the nation and fund the exploits with which Voltaire loves most: science and technology. It is not cruel or unjust: because the precursor to warfare is throwing ethics and morality out of the way. Voltaire had thought that warring was only a distraction to science and technology, but in fact, warfare is a method and a prerequisite for science and technology.


I had also read Rousseau’s works at 12 years old, he is quite a good writer. In fact, I would consider them to be almost equals in terms of my liking. 
What is the difference in you and Louis (the previous king), you two are both tyrants, no?
Well, tyrants is a bit wrong and unpatriotic when used to describe the greatest leader in the world, no? Louis was a homeless know-nothing beggar who somehow found his way into Royal court and destroyed the country? I, ME!, ME, I, restored the country! Not Louis! It was ME! 
There is a difference between being a tyrant and being harsh. Being harsh breeds the France I had ruled. Being a tyrant breeds France at all other times in history.


Describe some of your accomplishments.
Well, first of all, my great Napoleonic Code was, perhaps, no I meant definitely, the greatest work of humanity. Ever. In my Napoleonic Code, I guaranteed people the rights that they deserved. You help improve our society, you get rights. You don’t help, you don’t get rights. You fight for our nation, you get rights; you stay home and knit, you get no rights. You build new roads, you get rights;As simple as that. Yet, such a simple yet elegant piece of work put together our entire nation and made France great again.
And then talk about education and public works and battles and idk


Why were you so adamant in disadvantaging (?) women in the Napoleonic Code?
Look, women don’t matter. Do women fight at the frontlines and risk their lives? No. Are women educated? No. Are women rich? No. What do they contribute to our society overall? Nothing. Therefore, we should give them nothing. They don’t deserve it. A woman is the property of her father or her husband. She is a property; not a scholar, not a soldier. She is merely a person who is used to feed the men and the children. Women should stick to knitting. 
And why should I be defending my own choices? I am always correct. 
Why did you proclaim yourself emperor?
(Shrugs) Because I wanted to. Why did you proclaim yourself interviewer?


If I was not emperor, then I would be subject to the same obstacles as any democratic government would be subject to: back and forth bickering about some random thing that didn’t matter. Democracy is like training wheels for any government: it puts limits on your power, but at a certain point, you grow out of these limits. That’s why I proclaimed myself emperor: because I had grown out of the limits democracy had imposed.


What would you say to those who feel you betrayed the ideals of the French Revolution?
There is a difference in betraying the ideals of the French Revolution and figuring out your own method for making things work. The French revolution was caused by a shortage of food and government inefficacy. I solved those problems. What are they complaining about? I give them food, I give them schools (oddly phrased), I give them harbors, I give them roads, and I give them PRIDE (for alan t). If they don’t want these things, then they can move to rural Britain and live a life of feeding cows and pigs. Go ahead. The Continental System isn’t blocking you.


Section D


Looking back, would you say it [the conquest of Europe] was successful or not?
Definitely successful. 
Could you please elaborate?
Successful. I don’t like to divulge on matters of which there is no other side. It is successful. Period. I enriched my country, expanded its territory. And instilled pride into my citizens. What better could any emperor ask for? Well, except for the Russia thing. But Russians will always be Russians. When they are not freezing everything to death, they are putting everything on fire. 


Was your support of nationalism in Europe genuine or merely a trick to gain the trust and support of the people you subjugated? 
Questions. Not essays. And why in the world would you think a single thing I do is genuine? Nothing I do or say is genuine. Well, except for the above sentence. 


I needed nationalism to be able to conquer the inferior countries without much resistance. It is called being clever: to war without having to expend troops. 
In addition, nationalism when combined with the collective power of over a million people is terrifying, and admirable at the same time. 


Why did you attempt to impose the Continental System?
To cut off trade with Britain and to attempt to weaken it. Well, I emphasize the word attempt because it was really an attempt. Britain was our main enemy and rival, and we thought that the fact that it was an island cut off from the rest of continental Europe would help us. Unfortunately, it didn’t. 
It seems Britain was too strongly connected to other European countries, that cutting it off would not result in the isolation we had hoped. 


What would you have done differently?
I wish I could have seen the Russians and their stupid fire trick before we all died. That certainly would have helped. You must be very low to even fathom burning your own villages and food. It seems I have climbed too high on my horse, and the Russians have gained advantage of that. But again, all “good” things die. And so do I. Even if I had seen through their strategy, I would someday be captured or killed. But I am most proud of my legacy. Even if I die, I will always be remembered: in France, in Europe, on earth, and in the history books. 
Section E 


What would you like to be most remembered for? Have you tried reading about yourself in history textbooks?
I have accomplished great things during my time as an emperor, but i would i like to be most remembered for my clever war strategies, and my actions toward my nation. Such as, lowering food prices, establishing more schools, creating the Napoleonic code, and improving the economy of France. 


Given the chance to change one thing in your life, what would it be? 
If was given the change one thing in my life, I would have treated my eliminated the rest of the Louis family. Louis XVIII, started a war against me
If i was given the chance to change one thing in my life, i would not have invaded Russia because that campaign caused my popularity and reputation to drop. It was the beginning of my down fall. Everything seemed to collap after the failure 


Read about myself! Only an arrogant and selfish emperor would do that. Not me! 
Oh Gosh, but I can’t help it. Tell me, what does it say about me? Any good things? What about the Russian campaign? What weaklings they are, burning their own towns and villages! Don’t they have any sense of pride or nationalism? Or is it all stuck up the Czar’s snowy ass


Is there anything about my stomach cancer? Let me tell you: that DID not happen. The Russians poisoned me! What idiots. I did not have stomach cancer! I don’t die to such earthly diseases. The slavs had poisoned me. They should be turned into slaves working for France! The Slavs to Slaves movement! Slavs to Slaves! Slavs to Slaves!






Do you think a more democratic government would have been more successful in your time?
My army has grown too massive, my country too large, and my resources too vast. Do you think the stupid English Parliaments would be able to handle such resources? No—we would be arguing over whether to send 1000 soldiers or 1001 soldiers to fight. 


Dictatorship with a bad leader crumbles with respect to time. Dictatorship with any human like me rises to power with respect to time. 
And plus, I hate everything British. Even saying the name Britain appeals to my sense of disgust. Ugh! To even let my country be invaded by British ideals and government would make me cringe.