Section A


Where and when were you born? Tell us about your family life. 


What were some important influences in your early life?


Tell us about your marriages to Josephine and Marie-Louise.





Section C
Which one of the philosophes did you most admire during your rule of France?


Philosophes? Those little all-talk do-nothing old men who sit in coffee shops and bicker about useless matters all day? Ha! I’m better than that! 


But to pick one out of the 3 most honourable old useless men, Voltaire, Rousseau, and Montesquieu, I would pick Voltaire. He had truly believed in absolute monarchy power and he is right. Freedom of religion is paramount to the success of any society: as both of us had thought. 
But Voltaire is wrong on some topics, unlike me. As with any homo sapien, I believe that I am completely right on the matters which he is wrong—for example, warfare. It is a method to enrich the nation and fund the exploits with which Voltaire loves most: science and technology. It is not cruel or unjust: because the precursor to warfare is throwing ethics and morality out of the way. Voltaire had thought that warring was only a distraction to science and technology, but in fact, warfare is a method and a prerequisite for science and technology. Despite those disagreements, I still admire him and Rousseau greatly.


None of them are perfect. 
Why did you choose to rule as a tyrant, similar to Louis XVI and Louis XIV? 


Well, tyrants is a bit wrong and unpatriotic when used to describe the greatest leader in the world, no? Louis was a homeless know-nothing beggar who somehow found his way into Royal court and destroyed the country? I, ME!, ME, I, restored the country! Not Louis! It was ME! 
There is a difference between being a tyrant and being harsh. Being harsh breeds the France I had ruled. Being a tyrant breeds France at all other times in history.


Describe some of your accomplishments.
Well, first of all, my great Napoleonic Code was, perhaps, no I meant definitely, the greatest work of humanity. Ever. In my Napoleonic Code, I guaranteed people the rights that they deserved. You help improve our society, you get rights. You don’t help, you don’t get rights. You fight for our nation, you get rights; you stay home and knit, you get no rights. You build new roads, you get rights;As simple as that. Yet, such a simple yet elegant piece of work put together our entire nation and made France great again.
And then talk about education and public works and battles and idk


Why were you so adamant in disadvantaging (?) women in the Napoleonic Code?
Look, women don’t matter. Do women fight at the frontlines and risk their lives? No. Are women educated? No. Are women rich? No. What do they contribute to our society overall? Nothing. Therefore, we should give them nothing. They don’t deserve it. A woman is the property of her father or her husband. She is a property; not a scholar, not a soldier. She is merely a person who is used to feed the men and the children. Women should stick to knitting. 
And why should I be defending my own choices? I am always correct. 
Why did you proclaim yourself emperor?
(Shrugs) Because I wanted to. Why did you proclaim yourself interviewer?


If I was not emperor, then I would be subject to the same obstacles as any democratic government would be subject to: back and forth bickering about some random thing that didn’t matter. Democracy is like training wheels for any government: it puts limits on your power, but at a certain point, you grow out of these limits. That’s why I proclaimed myself emperor: because I had grown out of the limits democracy had imposed.


What would you say to those who feel you betrayed the ideals of the French Revolution?
There is a difference in betraying the ideals of the French Revolution and figuring out your own method for making things work. The French revolution was caused by a shortage of food and government inefficacy. I solved those problems. What are they complaining about? I give them food, I give them schools (oddly phrased), I give them harbors, I give them roads, and I give them PRIDE (for alan t). If they don’t want these things, then they can move to rural Britain and live a life of feeding cows and pigs. Go ahead. The Continental System isn’t blocking you.


Section D


Looking back, would you say it [the conquest of Europe] was successful or not?
Definitely successful. 
Could you please elaborate?
Successful. I don’t like to divulge on matters of which there is no other side. It is successful. Period. I enriched my country, expanded its territory. And instilled pride into my citizens. What better could any emperor ask for? Well, except for the Russia thing. But Russians will always be Russians. When they are not freezing everything to death, they are putting everything on fire. 


Was your support of nationalism in Europe genuine or merely a trick to gain the trust and support of the people you subjugated? 
Questions. Not essays. And why in the world would you think a single thing I do is genuine? Nothing I do or say is genuine. Well, except for the above sentence. 


I needed nationalism to be able to conquer the inferior countries without much resistance. It is called being clever: to war without having to expend troops. 
In addition, nationalism when combined with the collective power of over a million people is terrifying, and admirable at the same time. 


Why did you attempt to impose the Continental System?
To cut off trade with Britain and to attempt to weaken it. Well, I emphasize the word attempt because it was really an attempt. Britain was our main enemy and rival, and we thought that the fact that it was an island cut off from the rest of continental Europe would help us. Unfortunately, it didn’t. 
It seems Britain was too strongly connected to other European countries, that cutting it off would not result in the isolation we had hoped. 


What would you have done differently?
I wish I could have seen the Russians and their stupid fire trick before we all died. That certainly would have helped. You must be very low to even fathom burning your own villages and food. It seems I have climbed too high on my horse, and the Russians have gained advantage of that. But again, all “good” things die. And so do I. Even if I had seen through their strategy, I would someday be captured or killed. But I am most proud of my legacy. Even if I die, I will always be remembered: in France, in Europe, on earth, and in the history books. 


Do you have any regrets of your conquest of Europe?
NO.
Can you be more specific about it?
No means no. And there shouldn’t be anything for me to actually regret about. Everything I did I did for my country, to help it become better, stronger, and superior. I will be seen as the king of Europe in history, and my French Empire will be remembered as the greatest country in the European history.


What was your biggest failure? (wait a while)Was it the Russian Campaign?
No. It wasn’t the Russian Campaign, as a man, you should know that, you can never win a fight when your enemy is going to kill his family to prevent from you doing so. 


My biggest failure is that I have failed the continental system, and failed from keeping the dirty British away from the land of Europe. Even though we had a navy that is slightly less powerful than the British, it is still shocking that a much superior country and their people can not keep the rats of the sewer away from their land.
Section E 


What was your family’s reaction when you crowned yourself emperor?


Almost everyone in my family  was proud of my decision because they knew I was capable of  the managing an inexperienced army and a fallen Nation. Except for my ex wife, Marie-Louise. She thought that me crowning myself the emperor of France was a selfish decision. I considered her as part of my family, until she irritated me. She has been banned from France ever since.


What would you like to be most remembered for?


I have accomplished multiple uneasy tasks in my time, but I would like to be most remembered for clever war plans, accomplishments such as  lowering food prices, establishing schools. I also created the Napoleonic Code and improved the economy of France. Most importantly, I made my people proud of themselves and the nation. Now think of any other kings who did that. 


Given the chance to change one thing in your life, what would it be? 


If i was given the chance to change one thing in my life, i would not have invaded Russia because that campaign caused my popularity and reputation to drop. It was the beginning of my down fall. Everything seemed to collapse after the failure.




Do you think a more democratic government would have been more successful in your time?


My army grew too massive, my country was  too advanced , and my resources were too vast. The foolish English Parliaments would not able to handle such resources? So no, a democratic government would not be more helpful. No other French ruler or king managed my nation as successful as me. Dictatorship with a bad leader crumbles, but Dictatorship with any human like me rises to power.


And plus, I hate everything British. Even saying the name Britain appeals to my sense of disgust. Ugh! To even let my country be invaded by British ideals and government would make me cringe.