Every night, as I twist and turn in my bed trying to devise a method to sleep, some random things pop up into my head. And while these “random things” are not as useful as the facts needed for my next test, these “deviations” are not necessarily useless—only stuck in the small moment that I happen to think about them. Questions about identity or afterlife, or perhaps even the classical, the purpose of life, had always visited my mind at some point during my twisting and turning, in search of answers to these questions, and of course, sleep. 


Yet, as temporary as anything that would pop into my teenage mind, these ponderings rarely ever grew technical and rigorous. If I was intrigued by something, I would soon forget it in exchange for sleep. Yet, how I wish these mindless questions could turn into something fruitful and tangible—something I can point to and say “Yes—that are my thoughts about this.” Perhaps, a carefully argued paper would be perfect, but of course, with no tight deadlines and no sense of worth to devoting 5 weeks of my time to writing a paper that would be read by nobody, I wouldn’t do anything. 


So, in the end, nothing happens.


But, what if there was some starting ground for my ramblings? Could there be any benefit to storing these thoughts, solidifying them into something fruitful? 


While I understand that weird philosophical questions are not for everyone, least when they are trying to sleep, an earlier exposure to philosophy would be beneficial. 


While the addition of a seperated philosophy course would be cumbersome and hard to do, we could just integrate some bits of philosophy into a socials studies class. Perhaps, learning about history with a bias towards the philosophers at the time would be interesting. 


And while it would certainly be more rigorous than my “routine” before bed, and someday, I am doomed to regret this and think that philosophy and Socrates and rationalism and nihilism is too much, complaining to my friends that this “class was boring.” Nevertheless, philosophy is a science no one can complain, “But how will we use this in real life,” because philosophy is real life. 


Alternatively, however, I propose that we teach philosophy, instead of teaching reading philosophical works. As with all competitive high school kids, the class immediately becomes a race over who can speak the most like the ancient philosophers, or who have read most of their works. But is this the point of philosophy? Rather,