What happens after we die? What really is the difference between living and dead things? A rock and humans have the same atoms up close. But again, they are so different! As you look closer and closer, the lines between “dead” and “living” are further and further blurred. Then, at what point does a living thing become similar to a “dead” thing. At what point do I become just a bunch of atoms floating around? I opened my eyes and turned to see the nighttime clock. It was 1 past midnight. I really need to sleep instead of thinking about these things. I shook my head, hoping to clear away the ideas zipping around my head, and laid back down hoping to sleep[a]. That is how I begin every night. 


While I would love to record these ideas and “wanderings,” the hustle of school and subsequently, homework, suffocates my thoughts—until, of course, the lights darken and I am comfortably in my bed. Until then, can I only think in peace about weird things like atoms and living things. 


Often, I wonder about how much time I spend just letting my mind roam, which is hard because wandering through atoms and thinking about trains somehow manages to find its way to sleep. 


Yet, as temporary as anything that would pop into a teenage mind, my nightly philosophical diversions would rarely yield into something technical and rigorous, like an essay. If I was intrigued by something, I would soon forget it in exchange for sleep. Yet, how I wish these mindless questions could turn into something fruitful and tangible—something I can point to and say “Yes—that are my thoughts about this.” 


So, in the end, nothing happens.


But, what if there was some starting ground for my ramblings? Could there be any benefit to storing these thoughts, solidifying them into something fruitful? 


While I understand that weird philosophical questions are not for everyone, least when they are trying to sleep, an earlier exposure to philosophy would be beneficial. 


While the addition of a seperated philosophy course would be cumbersome and hard to do, we could just integrate some bits of philosophy into a socials studies class. Perhaps, learning about history with a bias towards the philosophers at the time would be interesting. 


And while it would certainly be more rigorous than my “routine” before bed, and someday, I am doomed to regret this and think that philosophy and Socrates and rationalism and nihilism is too much, complaining to my friends that this “class was boring.” Nevertheless, philosophy is a science no one can complain, “But how will we use this in real life,” because philosophy is real life. 


Alternatively, however, I propose that we teach philosophy, instead of teaching reading philosophical works. As with all competitive high school kids, the class immediately becomes a race over who can speak the most like the ancient philosophers, or who have read most of their works. But is this the point of philosophy? Rather, students learn to develop their own voice and philosophy, before being exposed, or perhaps, “spoiled” to the works of other philosophers. 


Again, perhaps this might just be another one of my philosophical musings, one that would not go very far past my thoughts. But I would give up anything to be exposed to philosophy. Maybe calling thinking as philosophy paints it in such a negative light: one that remains dim past the 19th century. The word philosophy holds a certain mystique to it, pervading the sense that only those who are knowledgeable in it can enjoy it, thus depriving itself of any followers. 


But in this world, where philosophy continues to be more important than ever, we certainly want to increase its appeal, not raise the entry bar to a higher level. 


But I’d rather flood myself with excuses than put one thought to word. Too much math homework. Too tired. Too sleepy. Oh, it’s dinner time! I wonder how many others are like me: creative in the worst possible time, unable to harness it, thinking at the most unthinkable time. What a waste. But only if there was a high school philosophy course...
[a]add thinking about train problem