I wish that everyone in this whole world were good people, that does not steal things that belong to other people. Most people have a trait to steal things that do not belong to them, iPhones. However, there are always an exception to lying. For instance, you see a man chasing this runaway slave, and he asks you which direction did the runaway slave go. Of course, you do not want the runaway slave to get beaten up, so you have to lie to the guy who is chasing the runaway slave. Even famous people like Nelson Mandela lies some of the time.


I knew this would not happen, but I will to describe what I would do if I saw my dad stealing something from a local store. I would definitely run to him and stop him in his tracks when he is stealing something from a local store. I think that he would steal something like an iPhone or iPad from a local store because he have loved those cool machines, even I have liked them, because they are so cool. Also, another reason that he would steal machines that are made by Apple is that I think that he is jealous that others have iPhones and he does not as if he was a poor man. Anyways, I think that he knows that stealing is bad and you have to pay for that in your life or your afterlife because Buddha taught him that. And, I think that he is very busy, from working at UBC or planning snowboarding and ski trips. I would return to the local store that he stole the thing from and put it back into the shelf. Of course, I will not show it to the manager of the store because I fear that he would call 911 and my dad would go in jail. What I would do is I would put it into my pocket, and if I do not have a pocket, I would put it into my school bag and go to the store, look for the shelf that it belongs to, and put it back. However, I do not think that it would be as easy as that because my dad might fight and would not let me return it back to the store.
 
Anyways, I am writing this to prove that stealing is not good, and there are exceptions to lying, which I had described earlier.