Sir Gawain and The Green Knight Discussion


In the poem “Sir Gawain and The Green Knight,” Sir Gawain regrets that he had fell for his temptations and received Bertilak’s girdle, saying “For man can cover his blemish, but unbind it he cannot.” For a knight even as chivalrous as himself, Gawain still remains disappointed with himself, and in turn, wears the girdle forever, as an effort not to hide his “blemish.” This remark reinforces the high bar of behaviour that the knights had set for themselves. Even though he had gone all the way to the Green Chapel, resisted the advances of Lady Bertilak, and lay his head down on the chopping block, Gawain’s single misdeed had tainted his honourable image as a knight forever.


In modern contexts, this quote could be applied to criminal records or school transcripts. One may hide their crimes, but their misdeeds will always cling onto them regardless. This quote can also be interpreted differently, in that a person could always hide his wrongdoings from others, but it will forever nag his conscience. 


Other thoughts


I found it intriguing how strictly the knights upheld honor and chivalry above all else. Even the legendary Arthur had to succumb to the Green Knight’s challenge and hesitantly stood up, before Gawain saved him.


Even Gawain had followed up with his promise to the Green Knight and headed up to the Green Chapel, fully knowing that his head would be chopped off. How big of a heart and a sense of chivalry does Sir Gawain have to travel through miles of forest, with nothing to think about except for his neck getting chopped by the Green Knight! 


The difference in values between the modern culture and Anglo-Saxon culture is also interesting. Whereas Anglo-Saxon culture values loyalty and chivalry, our culture emphasizes more on equality and freedom. Perhaps, as Anglo-Saxon culture expanded and got exposed to other different cultures, their “openness” increased and they became more liberal in their ideas. Individual pride and strict rules regarding a knight’s behaviour were replaced with flexible guidelines, and an emphasis on group benefit.