Humans have had automobiles or other travelling devices for a very long time. Nevertheless, they cause problems such as global warming, air pollution, and also decrease the safety of pedestrians  on the road, such as car accidents. However, automobiles do not only cause
problems, but  also help us throughout our life to either transport items or travel to destinations faster. While living things were living in total freedom of pollution, the invention of cars was making scientists more and more aware of the fact that the Earth is changing.


There are many different types of transportation means. As a result of a car’s ability to travel anywhere where there are flat lands, such as grass or asphalt, I think that the car is the most convenient means of transportation. In addition, the car is also luxury and fast in contrast to walking or cycling. A car has many disadvantages and advantages, I am going to write about the advantages first. Before the car was invented, people had used bicycles or walked to their destination every day. However, with the invention of cars, which transports people to their destination faster, so they can wake up later. People who use cars do not need to waste their energy walking to the place they want to go, car users just need to press the gas pedal to accelerate. A car is a very valuable item which only rich people can afford in the early times, however, modern technology and research have made it possible for almost anyone to get a car for the recent years. The design, the engine, and everything else that are connected to the car are very important, and I am sure that car buyers would rather check all of those parts before buying the car than just buy the car without any knowledge of it. 
Now, let’s talk about the disadvantages that a car has. First of all, the main disadvantage is pollution, which is a very serious problem in our world right now. If there were no pollution, humans would use cars a lot. The second disadvantage is fuel, and we do not have an unlimited fuel supply. I wish that there was an unlimited supply of fuel on Earth.
    I think that the car is very useful, but we should not overuse it as it causes a huge threat to the environment. Think about all those people who do not have cars if you think you cannot survive without a car. Why can those people survive without a car but you cannot? I hope that the world will be doing something to fight global warming.