Humans have had automobiles or other travelling devices for a very long time. Nevertheless, they cause problems such as global warming, air pollution, and also decrease the safety of pedestrians on the road, such as car accidents. However, automobiles do not only cause
problems, but they help us throughout our life to either get to work faster so that you do not have to wake up earlier and it makes it easier to travel around in cars, instead of feet.


 There are many different types of automobiles, but the one that is the easiest to get and the most reliable is the car. I say that because it is very cheap, and it can travel anywhere where there is flat land, such as grass or asphalt. In addition, the car is also luxury and fast too. A car has many advantages and disadvantages, but I will be writing about the first, or former, one. Before the car was invented, people had to use bicycles or walk from somewhere to someplace every day to go to work or do something else. However, with the invention of cars, people can wake up later because the car goes to their destination faster.  Also, people who buys and uses cars do not need to waste their energy walking the whole way, people that use cars just need a
push of a foot, or a pedal, whatever you want to call it, to accelerate and go faster. A car is a very valuable item in which only rich people can get at that time. However, modern technology and
research have made it possible for almost anyone to get a car. The design, the engine, and everything else that is connected to the car matters and buyers are sure to check all of those parts thoroughly before buying a car. That is why cars are so good. Now, let’s talk about the disadvantages that a car has. First of all, the main and most threatening thing about a car is that it produces pollution. Pollution is a very serious problem in our world right now. The second disadvantage is that it requires fuel to operate, and there is not an unlimited supply of fuel in the Earth. 
    I think that the car is very useful, but we should not overuse it so that it causes a huge threat to the environment. Think about all those people who do not have cars if you think that you cannot survive without a car. Why can those people survive without a car but you cannot.