Humans have had automobiles or other travelling devices for a very long time. Nevertheless, they cause problems such as global warming, air pollution, and also decrease the safety of pedestrians  on the road, such as car accidents. However, automobiles do not only cause
problems, but  also help us throughout our life to either transport items or travel to destinations faster. While living things were living in total freedom of pollution, the invention of cars was making scientists more and more aware of the fact that the Earth is changing.


There are many different types of transportation means, but the one that is cheapest and most reliable in my opinion is the car because it can travel anywhere where there are flat lands, such as grass or asphalt. In addition, the car is also luxury and fast too. In spite of many disadvantages, I am going to write about the advantages. Before the car was invented, people had used bicycles or walk to their destination every day. However, with the invention of cars, people can wake up later because the car goes to their destination faster.  Also, people who use cars do not need to waste their energy walking to their destination, people that use cars just need a push of a foot, or a pedal, whatever you want to call it, to accelerate and go faster. A car is a very valuable item in which only rich people can get at that time, however, modern technology and research have made it possible for almost anyone to get a car for the recent years. The design, the engine, and everything else that is connected to the car matters, and I am sure that car buyers would rather to check all of those parts than just buy the car without any knowledge of it. Now, let’s talk about the disadvantages that a car has. First of all, the main and most threatening thing about a car is that it produces pollution, which is a very serious problem in our world right now. If there were no forms of pollution, humans would use cars a lot. The second disadvantage is that it requires fuel to operate, and there is not an unlimited supply of fuel in the Earth. I wish that there is an unlimited supply of fuel on Earth.
    I think that the car is very useful, but we should not overuse it because it causes a huge threat to the environment. Think about all those people who do not have cars if you think that you cannot survive without a car. Why can those people survive without a car but you cannot. I hope that the world will be doing something to fight global warming.