Failure is impossible
Failure is impossible, but in today’s terms, when we say “I failed”, it means something more negative than the true meaning that “failure” possesses. Nowadays, when we say “we fail”, it means that we were unsuccessful in completing the task. However, we did not fail, because we progressed in our ability to do that task successfully. Nowadays, people immediately think of failure as being bad, insufficient, and unsatisfactory.  Many people do not recognize that sometimes, failing at a task may have more benefit than succeeding at it, because then, we develop and have more experience in the skill. The benefits that failure gives us can be easily forgotten because it is not tangible, and we cannot immediately recognize the effects.
One very distinct example where failing is considered to be very bad is in the seasonal school report card. Many parents will be very disappointed at their child with an F in his or her report card. Despite the fact that teachers don’t necessarily directly define the letter/grade “F” as very bad, we all can assume that everyone thinks like that. This sometimes leads to a weak foundation in the later years.  I have had many occurrences with this fact, where I feel very overconfident with myself for good marks, but later realized that I had not fully yet mastered the subject that I was feeling so overconfident not too long ago.
However, despite all of the benefits that failure gives us, sometimes, it can lead to devastating effects. Many people will immediately feel disappointed with themselves when they fail, and they may even stop trying to improve. Then, instead of all of the reflection and improvement, this type of reaction to failure can stop any improvement, and their skill may even decrease. Therefore, there should be a reasonable regulation of successes and failures, as too much of each in a short amount of time can backfire and be very bad instead of very good. For example, I was once failing a lot. This made me very depressed, and made me fail even further. Fortunately, the summer break came, and it gave me an opportunity to refresh myself. 
Failure is a very important aspect in our daily lives. I believe it is very influential in determining the important decisions that we have to make, such as going to a college or choosing which company/institute/corporation to invest our large banks of money in. Failure is a very good improvement opportunity, but being the powerful beast it is, it can also make us very bad and depressed.