Gary Soto, in his autobiographical memoir "A Summer Life," recounts his six year old experiences with human emotions, such as guilt and desire. Dealing with these emotions the only way a six-year old could—through bible teachings and warnings from parents—Gary Soto presents these adventures in a humorous and entertaining manner. Using imagery, inner narration, and contrast, Soto recreates the experiences and emotions of his six year old self trying to deal with the complex push-pull of guilt and desire. 


Soto uses imagery profusely throughout this memoir to bring to life these experiences that had been notable in his childhood. It is these "shadows of angels flopping on the backyard grass" and "the juice of guilt wetting my underarms" that defines Soto's childhood and attempt to make sense of complex emotions—one the desire of "the sweet tooth gleaming... at the nine kinds of pie," and the other the fear of "falling from grace [and] being thirsty for the rest of my life." Soto's lavish use of imagery delights the same human desires that Soto's younger self fell slaved to. Soon, this imagery forces us to sympathize with the narrator, and soon we want our own share of "wet finger-dripping pieces." 


In addition to imagery, Soto features the narrator's inner discussions with himself, which showcases even more of the relationship between guilt and responsibility that defines the conflict in this memoir. As six year old Soto considers the differences between befalling to the same traps as Adam and Eve, or "clawing a chunk from the pie tin and pushing it into the cavern of my mouth," we view a humorous inner narrative that, perhaps, most of us can sympathize with as well. Trying to grapple with the intricacies between guilt and desire—something that had never been taught in church or school—the narrator provides an interesting viewpoint. 


Contrast also appears several times throughout this memoir, the primary one being the narrator's maturity from believing that sin leads to hell, to realizing that "the best things in life came stolen." This change in perspective, and growth in maturity, comes evidently after the narrator deals with his emotions. The narrator's definition of sin also changes as the memoir progresses. He was strictly holy, and thought he "knew enough about hell to stop [him] from stealing," but asserting that "boredom made [him] sin." The meaning changes back, however, after the narrator experiences regret and admits that "sin was what you took and didn't give back." There is an additional contrast in paragraph 4 (line 56): the reader's perception of the narrator. Our sympathies with the narrator's emotions and his naivety all disappear as soon as he doesn't share the pie with "Cross-Eyed Johnny." This contrast shows how desire can hijack human emotions, first in the case of Adam and Eve, then for Soto's six year old self.


This memoir by Gary Soto is both humorous for its portrayal of childhood naivety and insightful for the various contrasts that appear throughout the memoir. The conflict between guilt and desire—one that many of us experience daily—structures the narrative and provides a foundation for the changes that happen subsequently. Lavish imagery portraying Soto's childhood emotions, the inner narration, and the featuring of an almost universal conflict brings to life Soto's six year old experiences and the changes that take place.