This camp was not like any other camp. The other camps that I had gone too were fun and I could do whatever I wanted to do. However, this camp was a training camp, which meant that there were scheduled activities that we had to do. In addition, the activities happening in the camp were not very fun, because most of them were just listening to lectures and writing notes down. Still, there were some fun activities such as the “Big Game”, as the organizers called it, and the water balloon fight. Despite the boring air in the camp whenever there was a long lecture without breaks, I still learned a lot about being a leader and following directions of a leader after going to the camp. 
        In every training camp that I have attended with the organization, there was always the big game. I do not know why they called it the big game, but I think that it is one of the biggest activities happening at the training camp other than the water balloon fight. Anyways, in the start, one of the leaders blew us a morse code message, in which there were instructions for the next step. After a while, we got the message, it said, “find the big red leaf.” I was confused by this, because there were so many red leafs in the whole campground. However, I suddenly remembered the Canadian flag in a corner of the campground. Then, I showed my team members my idea, and they instantly knew what I was talking about. Then, I went there, but I saw no other clues. So I thought that another organizer must be hiding somewhere, and I was right. So, he made us do stuff like make the SOS sign, and then he would give us the next clue. The longest station that we were at was the scavenger hunt station. There were some hidden notes, each of them containing a message, some are fake, but only two are real, and our job was to find the real message. At about half time, we found a piece of paper that had a morse code message on it. However, we soon found out that it was the fake one. After a long and eventful evening, we finally finished the game, and our team won!