This camp was not like any other camp. The other camps that I had gone too were fun and I could do whatever I wanted to do. However, this camp was a training camp, which meant that there were scheduled activities that we had to do. In addition, the activities happening in the camp were not very fun, because most of them were just listening to lectures and writing notes down. Still, there were some fun activities such as the “Big Game”, as the organizers called it, and the water balloon fight. Despite the boring air in the camp whenever there was a long lecture without breaks, I still learned a lot about being a leader and following directions of a leader after going to the camp. 
        In every training camp that I have attended with the organization, there was always the big game. I do not know why they called it the big game, but I think that it is one of the biggest activities happening at the training camp other than the water balloon fight. Anyways, in the start, one of the leaders blew us a morse code message, in which there were instructions for the next step. After a while, we got the message, it said, “find the big red leaf.” I was confused by this, because there were so many red leafs in the whole campground. However, I suddenly remembered the Canadian flag in a corner of the campground. Then, I showed my team members my idea, and they instantly knew what I was talking about. Then, I went there, but I saw no other clues. So I thought that another organizer must be hiding somewhere, and I was right. So, he made us do stuff like make the SOS sign, and then he would give us the next clue. The longest station that we were at was the scavenger hunt station. There were some hidden notes, each of them containing a message, some are fake, but only two are real, and our job was to find the real message. At about half time, we found a piece of paper that had a morse code message on it. However, we soon found out that it was the fake one. We were too credulous! Then, I realized that this game had a didactic side in it, because it trains the leadership skills we had just learned! After a long and eventful evening, we finally finished the game, and our team won!
        While we were running around trying to decode morse messages, the parents were filling and tying water balloons. Then, when both the game and the tying balloons were finished, we started a water balloon fight. Since there was not a lot of water balloons, the rule was that missing would result in standing in the middle and surviving balloons thrown by the opposing team. Most of the balloons did not pop on impact, but it popped when it bounced off into the ground, therefore, I was lucky sometimes when a balloon hit me, but luckily bounced into the ground. Most of the shots that hit me were not very wet, but they sure hurted a lot, especially the fleshy part near the hips. The leader set a boundary that we could play in, but after the adults joined, we were throwing the balloons everywhere. Sadly, the leader did not explain why she set the boundary, therefore, we had to pick up the balloon bits all over the park! However, it did not take long for us to pick up all the balloons littered across the park. 
        Although there were not many people coming to the camp, it was still very fun like always and I actually prefer that there were less people because there was more focus on the students and everyone was not left out in any of the games we played there. However, the assiduous leaders and organizers wasted all of their efforts and money in reserving the camp, but less than half of the group had gone. In addition, less students going to the camp meant a more commensurate size for the parents and leaders to manage and there was less dissonance, too. Furthermore, there was more luxury because we could not have eaten ice cream, threw as many water balloons, and learned as much if the whole group had came to the camp. Overall, the camp was very fun.