Compare and contrast U-Hill and Weir school


        Schools in Vancouver have many similarities and differences when they are compared to other schools. Likewise, the two schools that I have been in are very different and similar in many aspects. Their contrasts include their students, their teaching tools, and their building. Students in U-Hill, based on my personal observations, are a bit smarter than students in Weir. However, both schools have many similarities too. They are both located in residential areas so that it is convenient for both parents and students. U-Hill  and Weir both has considerable contrasts and similarities. 
U-Hill and Weir school have many similarities such as the location, the amount of students, and the schedule. Both of these schools are located in residential areas, where many students and parents live. In addition, both schools are very crowded because they are in residential areas. While Weir has a student count of about 600, U-Hill has about 500 students. I have seen schools that lack students because not many families live there. In Vietnam, the school, IPS, that I attended in 2009 was not as crowded as the schools in Canada because their location was at some rural community, not some residential or busy area. During my 2 years at Weir school in 2012, I was shuffled around many times when I came back from recess or lunchtime. I thought I would be free from the violent pushes when I came to U-Hill in 2013. However, I still got shuffled around in U-Hill school.  
Despite these similarities, both schools still have large differences to be considered. Firstly, U-Hill looks more modern and professional than my old school. U-Hill has wooden beams and giant glass panes whereas Weir school is built entirely with cement or concrete.. U-Hill also has better teaching tools such as iPads and TVs. In contrast, Weir uses blackboards or whiteboards. However, Weir has smartboards, which are like giant iPads, but immobile. My grade 2 teacher had difficulty projecting class material so that every student can see with ease. Had my grade 2 teacher had a smartboard, she would have taught us more and easier. In general, I would think U-Hill has better teaching tools than Weir. Furthermore, many students get to U-Hill by bike or by feet. In contrast, students in Weir school get to school by car. During my school years at Weir, my mom dropped me off using a car. However, in U-Hill, I biked to school most of the time. This is because not many students live near U-Hill, instead they live somewhere else such as East Vancouver or the other side of UBC.
U-Hill and Weir are schools that have differences and similarities. U-Hill is a great school to learn in, especially because they have excellent teaching tools such as iPads and TVs. However, Weir also has good teaching tools like smartboards, which are interactive whiteboards. Their contrasts include how their students get to school.. In U-Hill, most students get to school by bike. However, students in Weir school get to school by car. In conclusion, U-Hill and Weir school are great schools that have contrasts and similarities.