The liberal crisis


Time and time again, we keep hearing stories of diehard feminists shouting incomprehensible profanities and extreme liberals protesting just for the sake of protesting. And while I consider myself a liberal (centre-left to be exact), these stupid folks are smearing the face of an otherwise brilliant ideology with their giant mouths and infinitesimal intelligence. 


But these are just an introduction to what has happened on Canada’s East Coast. If extreme feminists and pointless protests are rated 10 on the one to ten scale of absurdity (10 being the most), then this recent event completely goes off the at light speed towards infinity. Yes—what I will tell you will probably be the stupidest thing you will hear.


3 weeks ago, the Dalhousie Student Union has decided to not celebrate Canada Day or its 150th birthday, citing that Canada Day was “oppressive” and “an act of ongoing colonialism.” The entirety of their Facebook post (Yes, they used Facebook to announce their absurd decision) goes like this.


Unlearn 150! 
We recognize that Canada Day and the Canada 150 celebrations are an act of ongoing colonialism that glorifies continued theft from, and disenfranchisement of, the indigenous peoples of Turtle Island (Canada). 
Here in K'jipuktuk (Halifax) we study work and live on unceded and unsurrendered Mi'kmaq territory. Mi'kma'ki is the traditional territory of the Mi’Kmaq people, who have lived on this land for over 13,000 years. 
We stand in solidarity with indigenous students and communities. We are committed to challenging and unlearning the narrative of Canada 150 and decolonizing education. 
#Unlearn150


Here, they claim that Canada Day and its 150th birthday celebrations are somehow also celebrating colonialism and “continued theft from…the indigenous peoples of Turtle Island.” What utter stupidity is this? This is so stupid that its stupidity cannot be expressed in just 26 characters of the English alphabet. 


Canada Day is simply a national day of Canada, nothing else. Even kids can understand it, Canada Day and its 150th birthday is extremely simple: a celebration of Canada. It is certainly not, however, some complicated nonsense about “colonialism” and “decolonizing education.” What in the actual world are they talking about here!


As these liberals take dumbassery to the extreme, the logical and normal folks in Canada have no choice but to sit and watch in vain as these self-entitled college students think protecting Native American rights by shutting down Canada Day is so cool. You know what, I change my mind. I thank Dalhousie Student Union for existing. Why? Because it keeps the extremist liberal who thought of the clever idea to categorize Canada Day as supporting the “continued theft” of Indigenous people away from the refuge of logic and mankind. In fact, if the sole purpose of Dalhousie Student Union was to occupy these students so they don’t spread their flawed logic (oh wait. Do they have any?) and ban the holidays we all love, then the student union has done its job well. 






I would have to admit that the post I had written yesterday, titled creatively “My liberal rant,” had as little reason as extreme liberals’ minds. To be clear, I am liberal and believe in equality for all, but I am definitely not those extremist liberals who think like economists: the fewer there are of a type of person, the more valuable there opinions become. So here in this post, I will try to explain why banning Canada Day in Dalhousie University is utterly stupid. 


First, if they truly believe in supporting Aboriginals, then why don’t they go out and do something, perhaps fundraising, that actually benefits these Indigenous people who have been, as they call it, “oppressed” by Canada? Sure, our history have been littered with residential schools and atrocities far greater than what extreme liberals have done to our world today. That doesn’t warrant them the right to trash a national Canadian holiday because of some atrocity that has relatively been resolved by the Canadian government. Perhaps, their goal was to exploit their positions of power and bring awareness. But my question to them is the same for any other protester: bring awareness to what?—to the fact that they are protesting, or to the fact they are not aware of the progress the Canadian government has attained towards a healthier relationship?