Henry Nguyen
 
Should Governments Place Taxes on Junk Food?
 
Even though we know junk foods are unhealthy for us, we cannot resist the urge to get a bag of chips. Fortunately, there are many things we can do to stop the habit and start a healthier life. There are many advantages as well as disadvantages of placing taxes on junk foods. By placing taxes on junk foods, less people will buy them, which means there will be healthier citizens. Money will also be spent on other useful stuff such as textbooks and donations. More landfill space will be saved when less garbage from junk foods are thrown out. However, businesses will run out, which hurts the economy of the country. Placing taxes on junk foods would result in healthier citizens, more money spent on other useful things, and less land pollution from garbage from junk foods.
Junk food makes people less active and think sluggishly. Therefore, people who eat less junk food are generally smarter and healthier. A country with many healthy and smart citizens are likely to have a good economy and reputation. Those countries can prove that by competing well in sports events such as the Olympics. There are also events that tests knowledge and creativity such as the Google Science Fair. A country with healthy citizens will have less people sick. The country may have a longer life expectancy, which increases its reputation as the healthiest country ever. According to Statistics Canada, in 2004, 35,000 people were asked to answer what they had eaten in the last 24 hours, where the food was made, and when it was prepared. Based on the statistics, they found out 25% of the people polled got their food prepared from a fast-food restaurant. In addition, those who got their food prepared from a fast-food restaurant could have ordered a salad or something healthy; however, 40% opted for a pizza, sandwich, burger, or hot dog.
Because there will be less people wasting their money on junk foods, the money will be spent on useful stuff such as textbooks or donation plans. Not only will the country result in healthier citizens, but also education because more money is spent on educational stuff. Another useful way citizens could make use of that money is by donating it to local charities. Therefore, they are making very good use of it instead of wasting it on unnecessary stuff. Citizens can also spend them on family vacations. On average, Canadian families waste 1000-2000$ every year on fast-food restaurants such as McDonalds, Tim Horton’s, and KFC. Those families do not know how much money they are wasting on expensive at-the-spot fast-food stands. If only those families stop the bad habit, then they not only save money, but also become healthier.
As you can see, there are many reasons why governments should place taxes on junk foods, and the reasons benefit their countries. Junk food should be banned and restricted. Governments should treat junk foods like drugs, where they are super expensive and illegal. Many people spend their money unwisely, even though they are teaching their kids not to! Healthy citizens will be all around the country, passing on the good habit to the future generations. In conclusion, there are many benefits of placing taxes on junk foods, including money spent wisely and healthier citizens.