Moving to UBC
Over the months, my brother, my dad, and I have had to experience a very inconvenient way of travelling between home, school, and work. Every weekday, we had to travel for 30 minutes to UBC, and then back for 30 minutes. It may seem like not a lot of time, but it has shaken me up very badly. During school hours, I had to hide the fact that I was not living here in UBC, or they would kick me out of the school. My parents suggested the idea of moving to UBC and renting our current house. I thought that it was just a suggestion, and before we moved, my brain kept telling me that there was less than 5 per cent chance that I would get to live at UBC. Finally, a week before school started again, we got our rental house. I was surprised by how lucky we were, as one day later, we got the house that we were currently living in rented. We began to pack up and prepare to move to UBC.
On the day before our moving date, we began packing up our clothes, shoes, computers, and other stuff. It was very long, since we had not done a lot of work during the past few days. I had to pack up all of my clothing and all of my books. That was really hard because I had a lot of papers and books, but I also had a lot of clothes and jackets, too. Our plan was to stuff everything in, not worrying about organization or neatness, then we would unpack everything and put them in their correct places. Therefore, I stuffed all of my hanging clothes into one box, including the plastic hangers, and all of the other clothes, I just folded them roughly and stuffed them into the box with the hanged clothes. My papers and books were easy, I just threw away the scrap papers that I did not need, and I organized the papers that I do need such as tutor essays, math homework, and drawings into a binder and a stack that fitted my box. While I was doing all of those things, my dad was renting the U-Haul moving truck and picking off so mething for the temple. After he came home, we began moving all of the boxes into the truck. The boxes were not very heavy, but there were sure a lot of them. Altogether, it took us from morning to about 4:00 PM.
        After a very long time, we finally got all the boxes into our new house. I began to explore around, trying all of the light switches, et cetera. After a few days, my parents bought a whole bunch of stuff from IKEA, including loft beds, tables, working chairs, and dining chairs. All throughout our life in Canada, we have rarely bought anything new, that is straight from the factory. All of our chairs, tables, and even lamps, were either bought from garage sales, or picked up from the streets after their previous owners had abandoned them. Assembling and transporting them was very painstaking because they were very heavy, and they often needed more powerful tools than we had to stitch them together. However, I naturally enjoyed assembling them, so they were a fun experience for me. Finally, after a week or so, we had everything assembled and in their correct places.
        The whole moving thing was worth it, because of transportation, despite the smaller rooms and an uncomfortable way of living. We could have just stayed in our comfortable houses and not bother about renting U-Haul trucks. We could have just studied in our local school. We could have just used the old furniture that we were used to and not worry about assembling and transporting new furniture. However, we made a decision. A decision to move and improve our education. A decision to move and force us to be more organized because of the limited space. A decision to rent and not be safe in our own houses. A decision to move to UBC.