On the day before our moving date, we began packing up our clothes, shoes, computers, and other stuff. It was very long, since we had not done a lot of work during the past few days. I had to pack up all of my clothing and all of my books. That was really hard because I had a lot of papers and books, but I also had a lot of clothes and jackets, too. Our plan was to stuff everything in, not worrying about organization or neatness, then we would unpack everything and put them in their correct places. Therefore, I stuffed all of my hanging clothes into one box, including the plastic hangers, and all of the other clothes, I just folded them roughly and stuffed them into the box with the hanged clothes. My papers and books were easy, I just threw away the scrap papers that I did not need, and I organized the papers that I do need such as tutor essays, math homework, and drawings into a binder and a stack that fitted my box. While I was doing all of those things, my dad was renting the U-Haul moving truck and picking off something for the temple. After he came home, we began moving all of the boxes into the truck. The boxes were not very heavy, but there were sure a lot of them. Altogether, it took us from morning to about 4:00 PM.
        After a very long time, we finally got all the boxes into our new house. I began to explore around, trying all of the light switches, et cetera. After a few days, my parents bought a whole bunch of stuff from IKEA, including loft beds, tables, working chairs, and dining chairs. All throughout our life in Canada, we have rarely bought anything new, that is straight from the factory. All of our chairs, tables, and even lamps, were either bought from garage sales, or picked up from the streets after their previous owners had abandoned them. Assembling and transporting them was very painstaking because they were very heavy, and they often needed more powerful tools than we had to stitch them together. However, I naturally enjoyed assembling them, so they were a fun experience for me. Finally, after a week or so, we had everything assembled and in their correct places.