Communication has always been a necessity and a part of human needs. Long before words had ever existed, I think that no natives depended that much on each other because they cannot communicate, and without communication means that there could be no teamwork. Because of that, they hardly ever improved on their lives. In other words, the technology there just stayed the same and same and the natives did not discover or invent new things. If you enjoy this, then you should research more about languages. I hope you enjoy it.
I think that the natives in the past had a hard time talking to each other as if they had not opened there mouths for a long time. If I had been one of the natives, I would have invented some kind of very simple language to serve as a basis for complex ones, such as English. I think that the natives there continued like that until some gifted, smart person thought of drawing pictures as a language, and it went on smoothly after that. However, the simple language was not capable of describing very specific thing, such as new. In addition, you cannot draw new, and even if it is a shiny, clean, new thing, then it would be very hard for the reader to get what you were saying. I am thinking that another person that was smart had the idea of symbols, or words to describe things, and later more types of words such as adjectives, verbs, and adverbs. I would rather develop a language than work with other things such as weapons because teamwork is always best. I think that they were smart and would work on language, but I guess that food was scarce for them, so they had to hunt for food everyday and improve their weapons before they can work on developing a language. Do not think that their life was easy, because while they were doing one thing, they were doing another thing, which is very hard to do. I wish that I could try how it was like to live without communication, and I am pretty sure that I will not like it, but I will just try it.
As you can tell, living a life without communication is very hard; it is harder than you think it is.  I am sure that you will be surprised by how hard it is.