“The old saying, “be careful what you wish for,” may be an appropriate warning. The drive to achieve a particular goal can dangerously narrow one’s perspective and encourage the fantasy that success in one endeavor will solve all of life’s difficulties. In fact, success can sometimes have unexpected consequences. Those who propel themselves toward the achievement of one goal often find that their lives are worse once success is achieved than they were before?”


Can success be bad?
Success is very fundamental to everyday life. It is the core of our humanity, and we are all trying to succeed at all times. After all, for the whole existence of us, we have all been trying to succeed, but not to fail. In addition, we often associate in our complex minds that success is good and failure is bad, or worse than success. Whenever we succeed, we feel better than when we fail. Those are just the very and very nature of the human being and the human race, from white to red to black skin people. However, too much success at one point can be very detrimental to one. We are wrong when we think success is good - as sometimes, it is not. 
One of the many ways that success can be detrimental is when we are succeeding in the wrong subject or thing. Although succeeding generally means being better or improving at good things, it can also include improving or getting better at bad things, such as robbery or breaking laws or crime. This is very bad because the more we succeed, the further we are down the path of doing bad things and having bad conscience. For example, my friend was a hacker, and he pirated many paid apps for free. After having very much success (bad success), my friend was lead further down the road to bad things. 
Success can also be gained by having a lot of positive or good reputation. At that time, one eliminates the need to slowly build trust, because the trust is already built from one’s reputation. For example, Barack Obama does not need to build trust from other people because he has already built it and he is very famous. He is very well trusted and very few people will ever doubt his power. Our reputation is formed by other people’s thoughts of us. If other people think we are bad, then our reputation is bad, and vice versa. 
Positive reinforcement, or reward systems, have been looked at as if they are beneficial. When people get bad results/awards or they get no award, often will be worse because makes them think that they are not good enough. Often happens in women-don’t think they are expected to get award or be top place.