[a]
I looked up at the TV in the corner of the grocer while waiting in line one morning, just as the second plane crashed into the tower. I looked around the store, only to find fearful faces all staring up at the corner of the TV. “Stop looking!,” I tried to say. “They are trying to scare you!,” but no matter how hard I shouted, I knew the steady, piercing voice of the news reporter would win. “We have reporters on the scene talking to victims right now. Let’s see what they say.” Then the screen blackened and more modern version of the host was displayed, “And that marks the 14th anniversary of MSNBC’s replay of the historic 9/11 accident. How likely are you to survive in one of these deadly attacks? Watch more to find out.” 


I had never thought of myself as a writer, or even a journalist. My future was set in front of me by generations past: get good at math and science, get an engineering/accounting degree, and become an addition to a chain of accountants and engineers in the family. 


I am interested in journalism precisely because I want to combat the likes of MSNBC and fear-mongering reporting. I envisioned journalism, the supposed “fourth pillar of democracy,” as informative and inspiring. Yet, turning on the TV yields a barrage of terrorist attacks after attack, and when there are none to report on, more speculations about future terrorist attacks—hardly inspiring at all if you ask me. 


In such a divided and diverse country as America, journalism has a large stake in determining the opinions and knowledge of the public. If they publish truthful, informative articles, then we end up in a paradise with none of the problems that plagues America. If journalists exploit our differences and instill fear into everyone, then we end up with all of the problems of America—polarization, hate crimes, and overall distrust. I want to be part of the increasing relevance that journalism has in society, and hopefully prove that journalism isn’t the likes of CNN or Fox, whose mission is rather to smear viewers with mindless fear.


But what could a lonely teenage voice do against these media conglomerates? A lot, I have learned. My first stint with journalism came in grade 8 when I protested the closing of the library during break hours through an article published in the school magazine. That was what I envisioned real journalists do: argue for the ideas they feel right through writing. The library subsequently opened its doors to students during break as a result of the article. While writing against the school is hardly the same as speaking out against shady media conglomerates, I enjoyed the process and would love to do it again, perhaps on a bigger scale. 


While I had never considered myself as a writer, seeing the words which I had slaved over for weeks have real impact on the whole school solidified my love for writing, and more specifically, journalism. But whenever I lose interest in writing or take too long a break from writing, just one look at the number of students using the library during break hours brings the motivation back. I want to continue to influence the public and I think this summer program would be helpful. 
[a]A typed, 500-word essay explaining your interest in journalism. Include at least 100 words about your interest in journalism in an increasingly diverse society