[a]




I had never thought of myself as a writer, or even a journalist. My future was set in front of me by generations past: get good at math and science, get an engineering/accounting degree, and live a stable life. Luckily for me, I liked math and science, and I was content with being just another addition to the chain of engineers and accountants in the family.


A typical school project showed me my first glimpse of the journalism industry, and slowly turned into hours of researching and writing. Much to my bewilderment, I no longer found myself looking forward to doing something else, as was always the case with any English project. Instead, I researched about the role of fear in the journalism industry—something which had nothing to do with the engineer/accountant path that was laid out so clearly ahead of me. School project turned to personal obsession as I delved deeper and seeked out the most obscure of research papers. 


Once I had exhausted all my curiosity for the fear-mongering journalism issue, I began spending more and more time researching and writing about other issues, thinking that I was a mini-journalist. My parents, unfortunately, didn’t match my enthusiasm for these so-called “useless endeavours.” A real journalist, according to my little mind at that time, would: ignore discouragement and keep working. That’s what I did. 


Perhaps, the closest I had gotten to real journalism was when I published an article for the school magazine for opening the library during break time. Previously, the school had decided to close the library in hopes of encouraging students to go outside. A week after the article was published, the school library reopened again to students—a decision I think that my article had driven. 


I wish to continue writing and impacting more people and decisions. Especially in such a diverse society as Canada or America, where effective journalism can hold the same weight as an effective government. Looking at just a snapshot of the recent media content, however, proves that we are nowhere close to effective journalism, and the rampant polarization, declining voter turnouts, and rising populism are clear side-effects. 


This type of fear-first, information-second journalism does little to harness the benefits of multiculturalism that marks Canada and America. 


In such a divided and diverse country as America, journalism has a large stake in determining the opinions and knowledge of the public. If they publish truthful, informative articles, then we end up in a paradise with none of the problems that plagues America. If journalists exploit our differences and instill fear into everyone, then we end up with all of the problems of America—polarization, hate crimes, and overall distrust. I want to be part of the increasing relevance that journalism has in society, and hopefully prove that journalism isn’t the likes of CNN or Fox, whose mission is rather to smear viewers with mindless fear.


But what could a lonely teenage voice do against these media conglomerates? A lot, I have learned. My first stint with journalism came in grade 8 when I protested the closing of the library during break hours through an article published in the school magazine. That was what I envisioned real journalists do: argue for the ideas they feel right through writing. The library subsequently opened its doors to students during break as a result of the article. While writing against the school is hardly the same as speaking out against shady media conglomerates, I enjoyed the process and would love to do it again, perhaps on a bigger scale. 


While I had never considered myself as a writer, seeing the words which I had slaved over for weeks have real impact on the whole school solidified my love for writing, and more specifically, journalism. But whenever I lose interest in writing or take too long a break from writing, just one look at the number of students using the library during break hours brings the motivation back. I want to continue to influence the public and I think this summer program would be helpful. 
[a]A typed, 500-word essay explaining your interest in journalism. Include at least 100 words about your interest in journalism in an increasingly diverse society