[a]




I had never thought of myself as a writer, or even a journalist. My future was set in front of me by generations past: get good at math and science, get an engineering/accounting degree, and live a stable life. Luckily for me, I liked math and science, and I was content with being just another addition to the chain of engineers and accountants in the family.


A typical school project showed me my first glimpse of the journalism industry, and slowly turned into hours of researching and writing. Much to my bewilderment, I no longer found myself looking forward to doing something else, as was always the case with any English project. Instead, I researched about the role of fear in the journalism industry—something which had nothing to do with the engineer/accountant path that was laid out so clearly ahead of me. School project turned to personal obsession as I delved deeper and seeked out the most obscure of research papers. 


Once I had exhausted all my curiosity for the fear-mongering journalism issue, I began spending more and more time researching and writing about other issues, thinking that I was a mini-journalist. My parents, unfortunately, didn’t match my enthusiasm for these so-called “useless endeavours.” A real journalist, according to my little mind at that time, would: ignore discouragement and keep working. That’s what I did. 


Perhaps, the closest I had gotten to real journalism was when I published an article for the school magazine for opening the library during break time. Previously, the school had decided to close the library in hopes of encouraging students to go outside. A week after the article was published, the school library reopened again to students—a decision I think that my article had driven. 


I wish to continue writing and impacting more people and decisions. Especially in such a diverse society as Canada or America, where effective journalism can hold the same weight as an effective government. Looking at just a snapshot of the recent media content, however, proves that we are nowhere close to effective journalism, and the rampant polarization, declining voter turnouts, and rising populism are clear side-effects. 


This type of fear-first, information-second journalism does little to harness the benefits of multiculturalism that marks Canada and America. I am interested in journalism to counteract these harmful media conglomerates and show people what multiculturalism really is.


But what could a lonely teenage voice do against the likes of CNN and Fox? That was what I thought too when I set out to write for opening the school library during break—what could a lonely student do against the school administration? 


[a]A typed, 500-word essay explaining your interest in journalism. Include at least 100 words about your interest in journalism in an increasingly diverse society