I had never thought of myself as a writer, or even a journalist. In fact, my future was set in front of me by generations past: be good at math and science, get an engineering/accounting degree, and live a stable life. Luckily for me, I liked math and science, and I was content with being just another addition to the chain of engineers and accountants in the family.


I had not known this then, but a typical boring school project on journalism would change my outlook towards writing forever. Boring school project turned to exciting research adventure as I scoured all I could find about media malaise—excessive fear in journalism. Much to my bewilderment, I no longer found myself looking forward to doing something else, as was always the case with anything writing. Instead, I read late into the night about the darker sides of journalism—something which had nothing to do with the engineer/accountant path that was supposedly laid out so clearly ahead of me. 


Once I had exhausted all my curiosity for the fear-mongering journalism issue, I began spending more and more time researching and writing about other issues, not knowing that, for the first time, I was enjoying writing and researching. My parents, unfortunately, didn’t match my enthusiasm for these so-called “useless endeavours.” My little mind, however, was too caught up in writing to care.


Perhaps, the closest I had gotten to real journalism was when I published an article for the school magazine for opening the library during break time. Previously, the school had decided to close the library in hopes of encouraging students to go outside. A week after the article was published, the school library reopened again to students—a decision I think that my article had driven. 


I wish to continue writing and impacting more people and decisions. Especially in such a diverse society as Canada or America, where effective journalism can hold the same weight as an effective government. Just a snapshot of any newspaper and tabloid proves, however, that we are nowhere close to effective journalism, and rampant polarization, declining voter turnouts, and rising populism are clear consequences.


This type of fear-first, information-second journalism has smeared multiculturalism as an evil force crumbling the country from the inside out. In such a polarized time when political emotions run high on both sides of the spectrum, false slander of the diversity that marks our very identity as Canadians and Americans only destroys the country even more. I am interested in journalism precisely to counteract these harmful media conglomerates and show what multiculturalism really entails.


But what could a lonely teenage voice do against the likes of CNN and Fox? That was what I thought too when I set out to write for opening the school library during break—what could a single student do against the school administration? Rather, I found journalism was more about what was said rather than who said it—ideas meaningful to the school community had real impact, even if the original author was a “lonely teenage voice.” 


After the short stint with the school magazine, I became more invested into writing and journalism, and the clear future of being an engineer disappeared. What if nobody wants my writing? How many writers don’t find publication? Nonetheless, I ignored the doubts my parents and society had instilled about a career in the artsFor me, journalism and writing in general was a much-needed medium for my ideas. With further encouragement from my parents, I wrote a shortlisted short story on censorship (CBC First Page Contest) and published one more story. Acceptance into this program will allow me to explore journalism even further and perhaps, even get published in a newspaper.