There are many factories in the world, some of which produce a lot of fumes and pollution into the sky. If a company wanted to build a factory in my village, which in this case, is Killarney, I would definitely say no because it affects the air. Furthermore, its side effects and waste also pollute the Earth. I think that the Earth has enough factories, and we do not need any more. In addition, I think that factories are not very lawful, they sometimes break rules to get their business better, more social, more profitable, and so on. One example of a factory making residents their annoyed is the Spiracha factory. If you do not know what it is, the factory makes chili sauce. Therefore, the residents there have complained about the spiciness. While the company was working freely, the residents was complaining about the spiciness.


In my opinion, I think that factories and other businesses should be built in designated places. What I mean by designated places is that there are no residents around, or any wonderful landmarks. By doing that, factories and businesses not only can work freely, well, not freely, but free to the complaints. However, jobs are going to be hard to occupy, thanks and due to the remote place. Working inside a factory is not the kind of job I would rather take than office work. That is because inside every factory, I think, is full of dirty, old stuff, though the outside looks good. Factories make many things, such as hair dryers, cars, airplanes, ships, wood, erasers, pencil, brick, concrete, trucks, all kinds of stuff as if there were factories for just everything. However, I do not think that some of the stuff are that necessary to us, such as hair dryers. Instead of using a hairdryer, I could always use a towel. I also think that it is ridiculous. Lets get back to the hair dryer example, why would we need to make things that we do not need? I think it is a waste of material and time. It also is a waste of electricity, since hair dryers need electricity to operate. However, there are some advantages to having a factory in your neighborhood. I had thought that humans only made useful things, and not wasting materials on things before I learned the real truth.


I hope factories will not appear in my neighborhood in the future. I wish that there were fewer factories in this world, which could have dramatically decreased the level of pollution.