Trip to Las Vegas
Las Vegas is a city full of traps and ditches for unprepared tourists coming in the hottest month of the year, July. In addition, the artificial cold in restaurants and buildings push all of the heat in the building out, making the outside even hotter than usual. I demured the authorities’ power to discourage the powerfully air conditioned buildings and grow more trees in the streets. Other than that, dust is unavoidable in Las Vegas, especially the strip, making everyone go inside the buildings and desert the streets. We, as one of the unprepared tourists stuck in a city that is almost like an oven, were eager to get out of this place as soon as possible. 
Despite all of the bad things about Las Vegas, there are a lot of good shows to watch. However, they are very expensive compared to the tickets sold in Vancouver. For front row seats, the price is just over 100 dollars, and more for the center. We, of course, did not choose front row seats because it was simply too expensive for us, nor did we choose the back row seats because it just was not close enough. Therefore, we choose middle row seats because they were decent enough to view and not very expensive compared to the front row seats. Then, when I was seated, I was very surprised when I found out the David Copperfield, the person presenting at the show, was probably one of the richest and most popular magician ever. His tricks were very creative and convoluted, to prevent someone from figuring it out and the show would not be good anymore. David Copperfield also seemed a bit bossy to me because he acted like he was so rich and his staff were like his servants, ready to help him in almost about everything.
The second most funnest thing I did in Las Vegas was seeing the Grand Canyon. It was a four hours drive there and a four hours drive back to Las Vegas, but only a few minutes of sightseeing the Grand Canyon because it was getting dark and the shuttle that would carry us down to the parking lot would not operate that late. Unfortunately, we just missed the sunset by a few minutes because the shuttle going up there was kind of slow. In addition, since the Grand Canyon was not bustling with cars and pollution, had more trees, and had a higher elevation than Las Vegas, it’s temperature was more within my comfort zone. On the way there, we visited the Skywalk, which was a platform extruding from a part of the canyon and allows us to view the canyon at a different perspective. However, the tickets were almost 70 dollars including the bus ticket and admission to go on the Skywalk. 
After two more days of shopping and resting, we finally boarded the plane back to Bellingham to drive back to Vancouver. I was finally very happy to arrive at a way comfortable and cleaner city with more trees and less cars. When I arrived home, I realized that there was a lot of organizing and unloading to do. However, there was not a lot of items to unload and unpack.