“Henry Nguyen.” I stood proudly and said my name with its full calibre of melodic ups and downs. The other second grader classmates of mine stared at me, with a look of confusion on their face. I smiled, as was common when people were staring at me for reasons I didn’t know. I must have heard a dozen “Nguyen’s” in first grade introductions in Vietnam. No reason to think there was any difference now in Canada.
“Henry....can you repeat your last name for me please?”
I could only hear the words “repeat...last name” but I knew enough English from tutoring in Vietnam to know what she had wanted. Again, without any notion of embarrassment at being stared at by everyone, I said what probably seemed like a tongue twister to my classmates again.
“Nguyen!” 
Only after I said my last name did the embarrassment catch up to me, prompting me to spell my name out just for the sake of the poor teacher. 


And from then on, for the sake of others, I reduced my last name down. First to go was the accent aboard the ‘Y’—reducing it from a melodic symphony to one monotonous rhythm. Then, I simply said it as two syllables: “Ngu-yen.” Who couldn’t recognize those two syllables, I thought. Now, it was “just try to say ‘gin’ and ‘win’ at the same time.”


It wasn’t only the spoken version of my name that suffered its evolutionary fate, but also its spelling. The squirly accent aboard the Y suddenly disappeared along with its use. In the more messy of writers, it would begin with a light upward stroke just to the right of the U, reaching its apex before reaching down in between the prongs of the Y, how far down depending on the writer and the pen. The last upward stroke will finish as it had began fading away. 


The ‘squiggly,’ like an evolutionary remnant, became useless once I came to Canada as they did not differentiate, much less understand what the accent was supposed to do. 


With each stage of this evolution, my name became more and more familiar to Canadian lips. My faked pronunciation of my last name eventually crept its way into my identity, and I found myself saying “Ngu-win” even to my Vietnamese relatives. 


While it is only a last name and would be quite a stretch to say that the slow ‘Canad-ification’ of my last name represents distancing from my culture, I noticed the slow evolution of my last name was interesting and an unlikely application to high school biology. 


Perhaps, the reduction of my last name to fit for Canadian lips could be described as an evolutionary process in a biology textbook as
“Temporary for the sake of convenience. The squiggle represents too much effort for too little use. Those without the unnecessary squiggle survived just as well as those with, with the added benefit of taking less energy. Its removal represents absolutely no lost in fitness of a population, and it has been found that more and more populations are turning to evolve the squiggle out of their individuals.”










“Nguyen,” I proclaimed with the full cooperation of the pharynx and the coordinated motion of the lips. Second grade attendance had me sitting on a carpeted floor with 29 other eager second graders who spoke English with such fluidity—it seemed like music to my ears. I wished I could speak English like them. 
“Say that again for me please, Henry.” She was a white woman reaching the late 40s, wearing a scarf and ticking names off her new list of grade twos. 
 “Nguyen,” I replied, this time with a bit more stutter and the words articulated a little slower, as if there was something wrong with my name. Stretching my neck up to see what was wrong, but thankfully the teacher looked back at me and smiled. 
 “That’s a very cool last name, Henry. I wish I could pronounce it. It’s winn, right?” I only nodded my head, obviously aware that what she said was nothing like my last name. It didn’t matter. She said it was cool, and nothing else in the world mattered.
 Second grade passed with several more instances where I had to repeat “Nguyen” several times for others who would try several times to get me to say it was correct. Of course it wasn’t—they never were. 
 The same happened in third, fourth, fifth, and sixth grade. Then in seventh grade, the same thing happened except one time where one guy would call “Nguyen” as “Nuisance.” The guy was a bully and the pun didn’t make sense, so it didn’t matter. Eighth and ninth grade were similar, and in tenth grade, my current count of my last name being used as a conversation starter stands at two. The highest I ever got to was fifteen in grade 6. 
 The problem was, I didn’t even know how to spell the proper version of my last name. I had no idea where the accents—the hat and the slash as I called them—would go. I was used to writing it without the accents. In comparison to the one with the full set of accents and the bells and whistles they carried on the word, however, mine seemed so much more bare and stripped.