“Henry Nguyen.” I stood proudly and said my name with its full calibre of melodic ups and downs. The other second grader classmates of mine stared at me, with a look of confusion on their face. I smiled, as was common when people were staring at me for reasons I didn’t know. I must have heard a dozen “Nguyen’s” in first grade introductions in Vietnam. No reason to think there was any difference now in Canada.
“Henry....can you repeat your last name for me please?”
I could only hear the words “repeat...last name” but I knew enough English from tutoring in Vietnam to know what she had wanted. Again, without any notion of embarrassment at being stared at by everyone, I said what probably seemed like a tongue twister to my classmates again.
“Nguyen!” 
Only after I said my last name did the embarrassment catch up to me, prompting me to spell my name out just for the sake of the poor teacher. 


And from then on, for the sake of others, I reduced my last name down. First to go was the accent aboard the ‘Y’—reducing it from a melodic symphony to one monotonous rhythm. Then, I simply said it as two syllables: “Ngu-yen.” Who couldn’t recognize those two syllables, I thought. Now, it was “just try to say ‘gin’ and ‘win’ at the same time.”


It wasn’t only the spoken version of my name that suffered its evolutionary fate, but also its spelling. The squirly accent aboard the Y suddenly disappeared along with its use. In the more messy of writers, it would begin with a light upward stroke just to the right of the U, reaching its apex before reaching down in between the prongs of the Y, how far down depending on the writer and the pen. The last upward stroke will finish as it had began fading away. 


The ‘squiggly,’ like an evolutionary remnant, became useless once I came to Canada as they did not differentiate, much less understand what the accent was supposed to do. 


With each stage of this evolution, my name became more and more familiar to Canadian lips. My faked pronunciation of my last name eventually crept its in and I found myself