# Seeing Horses Through the Window


A recently discharged (?) mentally ill man goes to a farm to live with his sister, in some Midwestern county.


Lives totally normally, until he meets the horses. Reminds him of something, make it vague.  *Make narration directly vague, as if unreliable narrator*


I had trouble sleeping that night. Something about the horses unsettled me. Something about the way it sniffed my hand, something about the way it moved, brought something in my mind. I kept looking over my shoulder, expecting the same horse to appear behind me. But still, as I sat watching TV, there was only a wall behind me. But the overwhelming blankness, the overwhelming whiteness of the wall couldn’t assure me of.../I didn’t even know what I had to be assured of./


Mentally ill man goes to live in a farm with his daughter. (Elderly man)
 
---


- _Introduce beth, daughter, and the man and give their current situation_
- _The scene where the man meets the horses for the first time_


The way my bed was positioned in accordance to the window gave me a beautiful night view of the plains below. That was the advantage of sleeping in the attic. It was a view anyone would sacrifice to have, and I could just make out the bright light in the distance, where the small train station was. I looked down at the plains through the window, although all I could see was black. I imagined the horse down there, wandering on a field of blackness. 


Then, I saw the horse through the window. And then, I didn’t see. It had happened too fast, even for shock or surprise. I was merely taken back by what I had seen: a horse peering through my window, and then just blackness. My heart started to beat faster, as I had realized what happened. /What had happened?/ I looked out at the window again, but all I could see was the faint glimmer of the train station, and nothing else. No horse. 


My heart thumped my chest. I jerked my head, looking around the room. All I saw was the blank white walls and the roof of the attic. The figure of a horse popped in the corner of my eyes. I jerked to that spot. But all I saw was the wooden beams of the roof. I continued to stare at it, willing to see whatever the figure was in more detail. The wooden beam flexed to weird proportions. The roof morphed into circle and triangles and changed colours and twisted and spun. At first, I couldn’t make out anything. Then, I could see a vague outline of a horse. The exact horse I saw. I saw it become clearer and clearer, and the colours had even changed to match.


Then, all around me started to morph and twist and turn. They changed from orange to purple to green and back to purple. I frantically looked around. The white walls were twisting and stretching, weirdly. 


The horse was everywhere. But whenever I looked closely, he seemed to morph back into the normal wall and ceiling. 


They all taunted me, rolling their heads and snorting and neighing. I couldn’t muffle the sound with my hands. It was as if the sound had originated inside me.  


I squeezed shut my eyes and buried my head into the pillow, fearing the horses on the ceiling and went to sleep. It was a miracle I went to sleep. 


I woke up to the sizzling of eggs and clatters from the kitchen. Beth was a good daughter. The memory of last night then promptly popped back into my head. I stared at the corner where the horses had taunted me last night. It was still the half-bolded beams of the ceiling. No horses. 


The following night, I had been in bed without any horses.