Horse in the Window
On one of my daily walks, I saw a lone horse on the field. When I got closer, he jerked to face me and backed away slowly, his eyes fixed on mine. It neighed, a sharp shrill, and galloped away from me. I headed quickly back to the farm.


It was a bad omen, and I begun to watch for the horse through the window. 


A few days later, I heard a knock on the door. I looked through the window to check who it was. It was Beth. But something was off. It had Beth’s body, but the head of a horse.


You see, I knew the horse was trying to trick me. I was not a fool. The horse had already knew it was caught. I could see it through its eyes.Try harder next time. I was satisfied. I had beaten the horse. 


15 minutes later, she knocked on the door. I didn’t tell her, Beth, because she would think I was crazy. And I didn’t care that she didn’t care. I went to sleep satisfied. I had beaten the horse.


Then, the horse was outside the window. It thumped on the window, as if wanting to get in. He thumped again, harder. When I gave no reply, he shook his head and neighed, before disappearing. I was scared.


The horses came again the next night. He thumped on the window again. He neighed and thumped on the window, harder this time. I had buried my head in my pillow, afraid of looking at the horse. Then, the window latch flipped open.


The horse came back, more determined than ever. The man looked at the window, distressed. The horse neighed and thumped on the window. He banged his head on the bed frame, hoping it would resolve his pain. The neighs were getting louder. He banged his head harder in vain. But he didn’t realize red liquid that pooled at the bottom of his knees, which had spread out to a considerable area by morning.


---


A few years later, when I came back to the farm to gather up my dad’s old belongings, I had the nerve to go into my father’s room. The blood-stained sheets had dried out now, and the crevices of the floor was still streaked with blood. I stepped closer, ignoring the awful smell, and saw the window was closed, and the latch locked. 


But why? The police had never touched the window during their investigation. I thought for a while, my theories getting ever more ridiculous. And then, I heard a sharp shrill, like a neighing horse.