8:00 AM
“Officials say at least 5 are injured in a terrorist attack near the Port Authority bus station this morning. We are still…” 
Ugh. I searched for the alarm clock through my stuck eyelids, not wanting to hear the mindless banter of the radio person anymore. I didn’t need any terrorist attack in the morning. And also, Vancouver was at least, like, 4000 miles away from Manhattan. 


They were commonplace in the news—open up the front page of any mainstream news website and there will always be a gruesome picture, followed by the bold headlines “X Killed in ‘Attack of Terror’,” as if the quotes around ‘Attack of Terror’ was supposed to make me feel better. 


I went into my car, and again, the radio played. “The suspect’s name is Sayfullo Saipov, and the police has, indeed, confirmed he is of Bangladeshi descent.” That man. Again. I scrolled across the channels whilst maneuvering my car out of the tight driveway. I wanted to hear sports, science, tech, even some boring economics commentary would have warranted right now. Anything except the man and whatever he had done in a city 4000 miles away. Even the Canadian radio networks were broadcasting about this guy in Brooklyn!


I turned the radio off, finally, defeated. I’d have to wait at least until next week for the “craze” about some random man to die down before I could tune into the news normally again. All for it to start again with the next terrorist attack in the next city. 


The morning traffic jam gave me some time to ponder about the man in New York. Who was he? I glanced at the cars all around me, each crawling for more space along the cramped highway. How easy was it to just slam the gas pedal and injure at least a few? The grey Toyota Corolla—was a terrorist in there? Or, perhaps, the black Dodge minivan? If the driver had wanted, he could easily have killed any one of us: the office worker trying to get to office, the mom trying to drive her kid to school, or the student trying to get to college. 


I grew paranoid. Gingerly, I turned my hand to switch the radio on, and a few seconds later, “Could this be linked to the previous rampage on a bike path on Halloween? It could be one of us at anytime, it really is scary. And worse yet, there seems to be no patterns to these…” I turned it off. I had to turn it off. I was scared.


Unfortunately, I am not the only one that is scared, not by these recent terrorist attacks in faraway lands, but rather, the media coverage that surrounds them and only dissipates 1 week, perhaps, 1 month later. And it wasn’t as if the information was useful to me: they might have been the same as concocted horror stories. 


Fear isn’t normally scary. But when it’s compounded and surrounds you for every hour of your life—when the same monotone voice pops up in every corner of your day and instills fear into you, that’s when fear is scary. Fear can also lead to many other consequences, in the bigger context. It leads to rash decisions within the population that the media infects, because in a world of fear and uncertainty, the biggest and grandest solutions, like build a border wall, seems reasonable.