The Glamour of Google Maps 
 
I first discovered what a computer was at age three by poking the big black box my dad was always around. It was uneventful as a big black box could be to a three year old
 
I first discovered what Google Maps was at age 6, just right after immigrating to Canada from Vietnam. I remember specifically the little stickman that would follow my mouse pointer with a little delay and plop right down on the pale blue lines. Then with little drags of my baby fingers I could look around the Canada I had just moved to.  
 
The first thing that struck me was green. Green grass, green trees, green shrubs. An orderly line of cars at a red light awaited me as I raced down Main St. Turned left onto Kingsway and immediately felt at home—the dirtied streetsides of Pho restaurants and grandmas strolling down the sidewalk with two bagfuls of groceries in hand. I clicked towards a small neighbourhood street and admired the line of trees that continued to the horizon, and behind them a similar row of houses. In Vietnam, street sides would have dessert shops and kids playing soccer on the sidewalk with slippers as goalposts.  
 
This Google Maps preview of what would be my new hometown for 7 or so years got me excited, and I climbed over a valley of cardboard moving boxes from the bedroom onto the windowsill, where I could confirm myself with my own eyes of the world I was living in. It fit the phrases my aunts and uncles used: “no trash on the streets,” “no roaring motorbikes,” “trees everywhere,” and “clean, smooth roads.” There were no boys playing soccers with flip-flops on the street, and nor was there the trusty “pastry woman” to which I could buy bread wrapped in old newspapers with a few wrinkled bills my mom gave me. I would have to go to the supermarket five blocks away now in Canada—and use the self-checkout counters with clean store-branded plastic grocery bags.  
 
Canada was my new playground, and Google Maps was the legs and arms I would use to explore it. I would use the excuse of studying on the computer, whatever “studying” had meant to a 7 year old me, to click around the streets of Vancouver. I felt a sense of home near Chinatown with the dirtied sidewalks and small asian stores that lined the small downtown streets, awe at the multi level concrete overpasses leading to a big highway.  
 
Needless to say, this simple website provided for my entertainment for the whole two months leading up to the start of the school year. Every so often I would revisit it to figure out my directions, and memories of my age seven fascinations with the golden world around would arise.  
 
I had only learned this month that Google Maps now had street views of certain Vietnamese streets, my home street included. As summer vacations ended and the last few weeks of summer ended up being nostalgic and sleepy lead-ups to school, I found my days growing longer, and rather try to busy myself with reading ahead or catching up on my long forgotten games, I rekindled my fascination for Google Maps.  
 
The feeling of excitement—as if of exploring a new playground—I wished I had had during the dismal lead-up to school was replaced by even more waves of nostalgia. The rock asphalt road that sloped up like a pyramid near the middle and lead to open-cover storm sewers at the sides was now replaced by slick highway asphalt and flattened out instead of being a pyramid. The slick and flat asphalt was much better suited for barefoot street soccer—save for the continuous stream of cars that made even crossing the road impossible. A traffic light and Western style cobbled walkways replaced the outdoor bar/bike mechanic shop/casino rolled into one old man’s home on the street corner. Thick curbs to prevent storm waters from leaching into houses were replaced by friendly green grasses with low curbs and the all too common cobbled walkways—too characteristic of European architecture.  
 
This feeling did not match the fascination I had when I had first toured Canada through the safety of my computer, nor did it match the nostalgia I felt lying in bed at 11:00 AM reminiscing summer vacations the week before school. While my definition of “home” has shifted to Canada—more specifically the Western world—I can’t say the addition of a few cobblestones and modern traffic lights instead of a corner hangout for drunk old men has made me feel more at home.  
 
Perhaps the fact that Google Maps has only mapped a select portion of Vietnamese streets—most of them downtown—has made my perception incorrect. From what I know, however, it would be impossible for me to distinguish Vietnamese between Canadian streets on Google Maps without telltale store signs. I wish I could play the same game of exploration with the same level of fascination as I had at 6 years old, except now on Vietnamese streets instead of Canadian. There is a special feeling when one looks at the same thing through different, more mature eyes. Instead of this feeling, I feel the urge to compare inferior similarities in Vietnam to Canada. “Oh, they spelled this wrong.” “This done in Canada would have been better.” “Show these people the Canadian version.”