There was this young boy in a kindergarten class in Vietnam, and he was not the smiling, cute, obedient children that most parents would have dreamed for. He was a troublemaker. He didn’t sit down when the teachers told him to. He didn’t eat lunch when he was supposed to. He didn’t listen and remember instructions. Every morning, the poor people subjected to the job of waking this boy faced a miniature wrestler, armed with his fists, nails, and teeth. These poor people were usually his parents. On the sixth day of his 4th kindergarten center, this boy was feeling particularly lousy. This lousiness caused the whole class to stand, hands behind head and face against the wall, as a punishment. The boy was even madder this time. “What is the point of this?” he dropped his hands and faced the teacher, “This is so stupid. Why can’t we do the fun stuff, like going home?” The whole class was silent. It seemed as if all of the teacher’s built up anger against the boy came flowing out. She led him by the hand towards the back, as the rest of the class strained their eyes, but locked their heads, to see what was happening. She put this boy in a small room, lit by white monotone fluorescent lights on a white ceiling. The teacher promptly shut the door and left the room to attend to her other students. The boy was alone, now. That boy was me.


        I had lived through Vietnam’s harsh education system for the first 6 years of my life, before immigrating to Canada. The true story above reflects very well the highlights of the things I learned with the Vietnamese education system: to shut up, and to blindly follow. 
        Whenever I raised my hand to ask a question, or to question the teacher, I would immediately know the consequences. From getting expelled to being in that small, monotone room, I had experienced all that Vietnamese teachers were willing to do for me. But that was the whole point of learning, wasn’t it? Learning was questioning the world and figuring things out on your own. Certainly not listening to everything your teachers said, as my previous teachers had expected.
        Kindergarten, in general, was the worst experience of schooling I had ever had. Due to my parent’s strong beliefs in education, however, I still had to go to the place where they impose upon you there ideals, sometimes as forcefully as locking me up in a room, in the name of learning. I was scared of these teachers. And along with my fear, came a mask to protect my curiosity, my desire to learn, and my questions from these punishments. The mask, once left long enough, however, will become part of my personality. I no longer needed a mask as time passed: my personality had changed. Once vibrant, curious, and eager. Now, it is dull, and on standby for further instructions.
        When I moved to Canada in grade 2, everything changed. The teachers now encouraged discussion, and if I didn’t discuss, then that is something weird. My long time of wearing the mask that my teachers had imposed upon me now had molded into my personality. My innate curiousity was suppressed by the mask, which had served me well in my Vietnamese education years. Now, in Canada, however, it was a nuisance. And, very hard to take off. You see, 3 and some years of maintaining a fake personality also means 3 or so years of opportunity for that fake personality to corrode upon my real personality. 
        While I am still trying to recoup the curiosity and the endless amount of questions I had before being exposed to Vietnamese schools.