Communicating technology was supposed to turn the world into a “global village,” enhancing our relationships with others and our understanding of other cultures. Yet I fear it has rendered us more polarized and less articulate. Instant communication allows us to proclaim what is on our minds before we have analyzed it, substantiated it, or rendered it coherent, let alone eloquent.”


Do modern means of communication make our society better or worse?


        Technology has evolved over the years of scientific research and experimentation, but does the convenience and power it provides to us humans worth it? One of the main technologies that affected human life and society is instant communication. It was designed to allow for easier communication and faster decisions, but now, it seems to have isolated us from communicating with the rest of the world. We are stuck in our own rooms, our mind locked into the tiny pixels ahead of us, and our hundreds of friends that we have not even me face to face for a couple of years. However, despite all of the commotion and debate going around whether instant communication have benefited us and our society for the last few years, I think that there are many advantages to instant communication, even though it tends to isolate us from the rest of the world if we abuse the technology or device too much. 
        Nowadays, many emergency services and government agencies utilize instant communication to its full potential. They have many computers and devices to process and respond to calls from various areas. In the past, people did not bother calling for the police because they would take forever to come and sort out the problem or mess. Instead, I would often call the neighbours, who are often nowhere as good as the police. However, nowadays, if I had an emergency and I had to call the police immediately, then I just have to dial 911, instead of calling the neighbors or waiting helplessly. Instant communication is also very good for businesses because they can communicate with their clients without having to arrange an actual meeting time in a physical room. In addition, businesses can conduct meetings with not all the members there, and video call them or something to make them share their ideas without them actually being in the room. 
        Instant communication technologies is helping to revolutionize businesses and our society. Think about the inconveniences of living in the old days without our phones and devices to connect with each other. Although it is said that technology encourages isolation, many people don’t feel isolated unless they are excessively using the device, which many people do not.