In this vivid recounting of a typical family gathering, Richard Rodriguez hints at the change that had occured from the previous generation to the present, and provides snippets of emotion and pride that come with being the first college-educated through description and actions. In lieu of the achievements that the author and his siblings had achieved despite their parent’s lack of education, this passage is a much more emotionally charged memoir of Rodriguez. Through foreshadowing, diction, and a purely disengaged description of events, Rodriguez makes his reminiscent and nostalgic attitude towards his past and his family evident. 


The introduction provides the context for an otherwise typical description of a Christmas, and coupled with the fact that he was the first in his family to enter college, fills the reader with awe for the author and his siblings for their success. Subsequent notions of their success, such as “expensive foreign cars” and “shiny mink jacket,” only serve to reinforce the reader’s admiration. Rodriguez’s choice of foreshadowing combined with an example delving deeper into the author and his siblings serves to demonstrate Rodriguez’s attitude well. The introduction merely states a mother’s—in fact, every mother’s—prediction that came out to be true for the author, without any more description or emotion than it warranted. Throughout the rest of the passage, we are disappointed by how there is so little emotion or awe that the author feels, but it also gives us a sense of the family’s quiet and nostalgic nature, of how even in the face of success and “expensive foreign cars,” they still are thinking of the past. 


Rodriguez’s diction, although lacking any of the obvious words that would point to his feelings and attitude, continually hints at them. For example, the first sentence states the author’s future success as simply and as lackluster in emotion as possible. Their success, however, does not blind them to other things, like when the author realizes his father’s silence and “the thinness of his arms,” which forces upon the readers the father’s nostalgia for his less grandeur past. In fact, there is also a contrast between the content of the passage and the terse style of its description. For example, the third paragraph’s short sentences and the fact that his sister “rushes down the front steps” present a rushed situation, while Rodriguez maintains his lack of emotion. This terse description even in describing such a feat hints at his inability to grasp the present, and his attitude. 


The passage is almost never about the author, and we never get to see his inner thoughts on the events preceding on the page. Although written in first-person perspective, Rodriguez uses minimal ‘I’s throughout his description, and almost every sentence are his observations stripped of the bias and emotion we would expect of a first-person narration. This terse style of narration is especially prevalent in the third paragraph (13-18), where each sentence is terse and describes only an action. As more of an onlooker than a sibling, this style of narration gives clues to his attitude, of how it is still stuck in the past while everybody else has moved on with their success.


Rodriguez structures his passage not as a memoir acclaiming his success to his siblings or his parents, but rather, as a proof of how he is unable to grasp the difference between the present and the past. He makes no mention to his emotions, and the events preceding in the passage makes Rodriguez seem more of an onlooker than an active participant. Perhaps, this is what defines the author’s attitude the most, and the fact that he is unable to wrap emotion around the present suggests of his nostalgic and reminiscent attitude towards him and his family.