Cruise ships are very comfortable and big, and they can float easily on the water! Imagine taking a lump of metal, and putting it down on the water, it sinks, right? And look at this ship, even bigger than the lump of metal and heavier! Well, that is because of how the insides look like. If the inside is hollow, then there is more chance of it being able to float on the water. In other words, the total weight of the ship must be lighter than the ship itself, but entirely made out of water.  
The Costa Concordia was a very huge cruise ship with a length of 290.2 metres from bow to stern. Unfortunately, it had sunken just hours after the departure. It sunk when the captain was sailing to close to the island while he was showing it off to the passengers. The ship hit a rock on its way, tearing the bottom of the hull off. Seconds after, the ship lurched towards the left side, forcing the passengers to stand on the right side in order to balance the ship.
Before the crash investigation could begin, 2400 tons of fuel had been extracted from Costa Concordia’s tanks. The decision to salvage the ship instead of throwing the ship away took place days after the ship had sunk.
In order to haul the ship upright from its leaning position was painstaking. First, a wooden frame was built to support the ship from underneath, then metal tanks, called caissons, were placed onto the high side of the ship, later helping the process of using cables to pull the ship. The metal tanks were then filled with water to act as a counterweight between the side that is underwater and the side that is above the water. The cables were put into position to pull the ship upright, with the help of the caissons. To balance the ship, more caissons were put into the other side, now that it has been upright. The water in the caissons was pumped out, to act as the float for the ship, once that it is ready to be salvaged.
The sinking of the Costa Concordia cost a huge amount of financial lost and nature disadvantages as well. Thirty two passengers and crew died in the accident involving the Costa Concordia, making it one of the most disastrous ship accidents in the world.