Cruise ships are very comfortable and big, and they can float easily on the water as if they were lighter than air! Imagine a lump of metal falling towards the water,it sinks, right? And look at this ship, even bigger than the lump of metal and heavier! Well, that is because of how the insides look like. If the inside is hollow, then there will be more chance of it being able to float on the water. In other words, the total weight of the ship must be lighter than the ship itself, but entirely made out of water.  
The Costa Concordia was a very huge cruise ship with a length of 290.2 metres from bow to stern. Unfortunately, it had sunken just hours after the departure. It sunk when the captain was sailing too close to the island while he was showing it off to the villagers. The ship hit a rock on its way, tearing the bottom of the hull off. Seconds after, the ship had lurched towards the left side, forcing the passengers to stand on the right side in order to balance the ship.
Before the crash investigation could begin, 2400 tons of fuel had been extracted from Costa Concordia’s tanks. The decision to salvage the ship instead of throwing the ship away took place days after the ship had sunken.
The progress to haul the ship upright from its leaning position was painstaking. First, a wooden frame was built to support the ship from underneath, then metal tanks, called caissons, were attached onto the high side of the ship, later helping the process of using cables to pull the ship. The caissons were then filled with water to act as a counterweight between the side that is underwater and the side that is being above the water. The cables were then put into position to pull the ship upright, with the help of the caissons. To balance the ship, more caissons were put into the other side of the ship after it has been upright. The water in the caissons was pumped out, to act as the float for the ship, once that it is ready to be moved and salvaged.
The sinking of the Costa Concordia costed a huge amount of financial lost and nature disadvantages as well. Thirty two passengers and crew died in the accident involving the Costa Concordia, making it one of the most disastrous ship accidents in the world. If the captain had not been so proud of his ship, then the disaster would have not happened.




hit rock, tore aprt hull
captain decided to sail too close to the island
crash investigatoin
2400 tons of fuel extracted
salvaging the ship 
wreck from the ship will make to the italian scrapyard
frame to supprot the ship
metal boxes( caissons) attached to the upper side of the ship
caissons filled with water
ship pulled upright using cables, with the help of caissons
more caissons fixed on other side ship
water pumped out. 
empty caissons used as floats for the ship
salvage may cost 500 million euros
32 passengers and crews died in the accident
captain steered too close to the island while showing it off