Storms are getting stronger than ever as typhoon Haiyan dangerously swept over the densely populated Philippines’ capital and many other islands as well. Typhoon Haiyan was so strong that it pushed the limits of Category 5 on the Saffir Simpson scale.
          Scientists must say that storms are going to get stronger and stronger as global and atmospheric temperatures increase. It is not possible to say that the exceptional power of typhoon Haiyan is due to climate change and rising ocean levels, since typhoon Haiyan might acquire its power from other ocean conditions as well.
Rising ocean temperatures might result in stronger storms in the future, even though it is rising slower then scientists have expected it is not a thing that we should celebrate.
Warm water revitalizes storms and hurricanes, so they can dramatically change a storm’s path or/and its speed. Because of that, wind speeds and moisture levels are going to raise suffering for the people in the path of the storm. An example of hot spots in the ocean that increased the speeds of storms is the Gulf of Mexico, which provided a boost to Hurricane Katrina as it closed up on New Orleans. Typhoon Haiyan could have been weaker if it was not born near the coast of the Philippines, since there were hot spots of water over there. Scientists also predict that there are going to be more tropical storms in the future, so there might be more scenes like the devastation scene in the Philippines. Following that statement, there will need to be less war and more help from all the countries worldwide, including the small countries, such as Vietnam. How are we going to do that? Well, it is up to those big guys to decide, if they think the problem is a big threat, they might provide relief for small countries.
Unluckily, typhoon Haiyan had hit the most densely populated of the Philippines, killing more people and making longer reconstruction for all of the buildings that once stood there before the people there have a chance to prepare for it. 
Storms are very unpredictable, therefore, a great way to prepare for it is shelter, and follow your instincts. If something in your stomach or brain is telling you something is not right, you should trust it. Weather stations are not always right about telling whether a storm is to come or not, so do trust the stations, but trust yourself more.


        


http://www.cbc.ca/newsblogs/technology/quirks-quarks-blog/2013/11/typhoon-haiyan-sign-of-whats-to-come-with-climate-change.html