There are many different types of currencies in the world, but none of them are very convenient. For example, it would take a lot of time to count the money, then the change, if an item was placed at $154.68. Fortunately, the new currency, called Bitcoin, is making counting easier. Bitcoin is digital money that you can trade for items bought from a store using a smartphone app. People can get bitcoins by either mining it on a computer, or buy it using money. Since there are very few Bitcoin ATMs around, there is this organization called Cointinker, where you can give them money and receive bitcoins. At this time, bitcoins are worth around nine hundred dollars. 


        People can now buy bitcoins easily on the Internet using an app, or they can go to the bitcoin ATM if they wish to get cash. Recently, there are three bitcoin atms in operation so far. Bitcoins are like real money, which can be spent to buy goods, services, and other things. However, the downside is that it is not tied to any bank or government. As a result, it can be easily hacked. In the year two thousand and ten, bitcoins were worth almost nothing. However, as the demand for the currency of the future, I like to call it, ascends, the value of bitcoins rose with it. By 2013, its value rose to $1000 dollars for each. Had I bought bitcoins in 2010, I could have became rich by now. Coming back to Cointinker, an organization that helps people buy their first bitcoins, have helped Black by her first bitcoins. Ms. Black is a student at the University of Waterloo who recently bought a $800 worth of bitcoin. 


        Creech is one of the helpers to help people buy their first bitcoin. Creech said that it is very hard when you are buying bitcoins for the first time because you have to set up an account, and other things. In order to make money, Creech and his team charge a six percent fee when customers buy their bitcoins. There are many deals that Cointinker offers, most of which are from one hundred dollars to five hundred dollars. The downside of all this dealing is he have to meet his clients at coffee shops or food courts. As a result, it is a bit suspicious to guards. He said one of the most bizarre cases happened when a customer gave him one thousand dollars in twenty dollar bills. 


        I think that bitcoins are useful.