Name: “Swimcat”


General description
The “swimcat” is made up of a cat body with the movement parts of a fish (tail fin+pectoral fins). The anterior head region will be the same of a cat, complete with ears, nose, eyes, mouth, and a mammalian brain. The swimcat came into the world when wealthy cat owners had forgotten all of their cats on a lake camping trip (150 cats in total!). These cats, with no reliable source of food and little land on which to prey, had to devise a way to catch food in the water. The cats with paws and legs resembling more like fins (muscled with a large surface area for pushing water) were more likely to survive, and over time, this population of 150 cats became more and more fish like. Sometime in the future, there will emerge a “swimcat” with enhanced swimming abilities while still retaining the body and anterior features of a normal cat. As water levels rose and rose in the lake (heavy rains), the swimcat no longer needed legs, and thus, it is completely eliminated. 


This swimcat will be approximately the same size as a cat plus a posterior fin to aid in swimming.


Habitat
The swimcat is confined to the lake, and it primarily lives in shallow water. With a cat’s mouth, it cannot eat the bigger fish deeper in the lake, so resorts to eating smaller fishes near the circumference of the lake. 


The swimcat lives in a marine environment surrounded by a tropical rainforest biome. The tropical rainforest provides the lake with many nutrients and allows the swimcat a higher chance of survival. 


This biome is warm and diverse with many different aquatic and terrestrial species. Many small fishes live in the shallow region between the lake and the tropical rainforest, providing many food resources to the swimcat. Thick vegetation above and beneath the water ensure a nutrient-rich environment for the swimcat to thrive in. Not many large animals live in the tropical rainforest so the swimcat is relatively safe from predation.


Description of Life Functions


Internal Transport
The swimcat will adopt a two-chambered heart with the ventricle pumping through the gills and to the rest of the body. Although this animal have large oxygen requirements, a two-chambered heart with a strong and developed ventricle will adequately satisfy the needs for internal transport. The heart will be located closer to the anterior end of the fish, with deoxygenated blood flowing from the ventricle to the gills, from which it becomes oxygenated, and much of this oxygen-rich blood will travel to the posterior end of the body to fuel the large muscles operating the posterior fin. 


Respiration
As this animal will have large oxygen requirements, there will be numerous gills lined not only on the surface of the body but also on the pectoral fins. Water flowing through the fins at a high speed will mean more oxygen diffusion into the gills. Gills located on the pectoral fins will also mean these fins receive high levels of oxygen, which is essential for efficient movement through water. 


Excretion
As the swimcat is immersed in an aquatic environment, it has no need to expend energy to convert the crude form of nitrogenous waste (ammonia) into safer forms to excrete out of the body. It has a similar excretory system to a fish, and does not waste any energy on converting nitrogenous waste. The swimcat does not have a urinary bladder, and instead adopts the excretory system of a fish, namely diffusion of nitrogenous wastes through the gills. A bladder is unnecessary as urination does not need to be controlled—swimcats can pee whenever they want! The swimcat will retain the vital excretory organs such as the kidney to regulate ion concentrations, pH, and wastes in the body.


Feeding and Digestion
The swimcat will have a short digestive tract of a small intestine followed by a large intestine, as the animal’s main food source will be small plankton and other miniature fishes. The swimcat will have a cloaca (present in fishes but not cats) as a passageway for digestive wastes. The anus will not be present as the swimcat does not need more specialized structures for reproduction—movement of sperm to egg can happen through the cloaca instead of another developed structure. 




  



References


https://www.merckvetmanual.com/cat-owners/kidney-and-urinary-tract-disorders-of-cats/the-urinary-system-of-cats


https://www.merckvetmanual.com/cat-owners/digestive-disorders-of-cats/introduction-to-digestive-disorders-of-cats


http://web.utk.edu/~rstrange/wfs550/html-con-pages/v-digest-sys.html


http://www.ucmp.berkeley.edu/vertebrates/sarco/dipnoi.html


http://www.srl.caltech.edu/personnel/krubal/rainforest/Edit560s6/www/animals.html