Getting our hands dirty
        My most memorable school year was not in grade 1, where I stepped into my first air-conditioned classroom with my button-up uniform tucked tightly into my trousers. Neither was it when in grade nine when I got my first textbook and received my first row of straight A’s. It was right in the middle of elementary in grade 5. A few plots of land and a dedicated teacher who found a way to make 30 angsty students be interested in growing plants for a whole two months made it my most memorable, and useful school year so far.
        New plots of garden meant teachers dying to take their students for a series of “outside the classroom” learning. Students, however, were more excited at the mere prospect of leaving their seats. Being a class of thirty eager students with only five small garden plots meant six pairs of hands poking the soil.
        “Guys! Look! It’s getting bigger! Is it growing, Mr. Rupert?” 
        A whole group of overzealous fifth graders would then topple over one another to look at the supposed growing seed. 
        “Stop touching it Ethan! It’s not going to grow if you keep poking!”
        “Yeah, stop touching, Ethan!”
        “SO? I’m not touching it! I’m just touching around it.”

        Despite our fifth grade earnestness, these seeds did eventually grow into lentil plants. My teachers had somehow captured thirty high-energy kids throughout this whole ordeal of gardening—possibly the slowest subject ever. 
        My interest in gardening had started since then, but has amounted to nothing in high school. Perhaps, “gardening” was too useless of a science to be taught in high school. For one, it doesn’t fill university entrance requirements; and two,  it doesn’t grant the same amount of funding as an “AP Biology” course.
Given the current emphasis on teaching real life “soft skills” rather than teaching rote memorization, I am surprised that gardening is not advocated for along with teaching taxes and balancing checkbooks. Why is managing bank accounts more important than growing your own food? Of course, this advanced society of ours allows us to buy food without ever knowing how farming works. While convenient, this advancement creates problems for  
        While it may seem that a garden is too elementary and provides little teaching experience to students, the school garden and gardening skills in general are growing in demand and especially important in modern times. As our dependence on farmed and processed food rises, our food stability as a population will decrease. What happens when a drought strikes and our markets run out of food? We have suddenly all thousands of people trained with their AP scores and A+’s and whatnots, for what? It would seem much more safe for a population to have some skill and experience with gardening obtained in high school—whether that be from a whole semester class or integrated into another, like Foods Studies or Biology. 
        Especially in a society that is lacking food diversity and suffering from obesity, the skills and importance of teaching gardening early on is profound. Our over dependence on processed and marketed food is convenient, but unhealthy for both the individual and the stability of our economy. What happens if disaster strikes and a drought incurs? Will we all crowd our supermarkets and line up at Walmart or Superstore to shop empty shelves? Worse yet, as bigger conglomerates begin to monopolize our very food sources, and as GMOs and additives are increasingly becoming secretive and hidden, we have nowhere to go for trustworthy food. The occasional farmer’s market helps to keep the community alive and together, but what about the other three hundred and sixty some days that we are left to our own devices? 
        Emphasizing gardening as an important skill would alleviate some of these problems that we can all see the effects too well: growing obesity rates, heart attacks, excess food waste, and stores lined with rows upon rows of processed instant meals. Most colleges have botany programs for would-be scientists, and while not eliciting the same enthusiasm as a gardening program in elementary school would, these programs are certainly useful to the general public. 
        Whatever interest of gardening gleaned from elementary school memories of thirty schoolchildren crowded around a small pot is destroyed by the rigour of high school——an interest that not even the keenest and most passionate AP Biology teacher can replace. Even worse, trying to reignite that interest in what’s now called “botany” is even harder in college. Think—who thinks of their elementary school memories when deciding a major in college? 
        The point here is not to propose more people should become botanists, or that gardening, more scientifically “botany,” should be more respected a science. Rather, we should cultivate, simply, a love and appreciation for nature in high school. Just that simple action will help alleviate many of the problems in our society, as well as increase food stability for America and Canada. 
        From this broad perspective, it makes perfect sense for high schools to adopt more of a botanical perspective in their Foods or Sciences curriculum. Gardening is dirt cheap to set up and requires almost no commitment to the school. No need to worry to where to place the rich donor’s name, as would happen with a new football stadium, or who to give textbook money to. And of course, with the ample resources and space of high school, each student can have their own garden without being crowded around one tiny pea plant. 


        
1: “Oh my god. It’s getting SO big!” “You don’t see it? How can you not see it!” “Yeah. It must be getting bigger then.”