Getting our hands dirty
        My most memorable school year was not in grade 1, where I stepped into my first air-conditioned classroom with my button-up uniform tucked tightly into my trousers. It was right in the middle of elementary in grade 5, when there was nothing new except a few plots of land and a dedicated teacher who found a way to make 30 angsty students be interested in growing plants for a whole two months.
        I was perhaps as excited as any fifth grader would be when our teacher announced that in place of our regular biology classes—more at the prospect of being able to play outside than learning. Over the course of several classes, we transferred bags and bags of soil to the wooden structures set outside as a garden. After the bags came “the exciting part,” which, according to my teachers, involved just putting the seeds into the soil and nothing else. Of course, being a class of about thirty fifth graders with only access to five small plots of garden, we couldn’t help but poke around at the seeds and turn the soil. 
        “Guys! Look! It’s getting bigger! Is it growing, Mr. Rupert?” 
        Then, a whole group of overzealous fifth graders would topple over one another to look at the supposed growing seed, when it was in fact smaller because of all the poking around we had done. 
        Nevertheless, these seeds did grow into lentil plants, which sprouted seeds of their own. Our wonderful teachers had somehow figured a way to keep the attentions of these students for 2 months throughout this whole ordeal. While whether we would have learned more in a normal classroom setting than through picking the soil and watching, pretending to notice that the seed was growing1, this short ordeal in grade 5 certainly changed my attitude towards gardening and biology in general. 
        Also given the fact that it was elementary school, there was little rigorous biology to be taught. This interest amounted to nothing in high school, however, as the classes of biology or AP whatever were filled with textbook readings and lecture Powerpoints. The first questions in a “plant biology” lab were “how much is this worth?” or “what is the rubric.” Even then, practical concepts of gardening and botany were hardly taught. 
        The school garden served not only as a community gathering point, but also for a mini-educational purpose (how much emphasis on mini dependent on the reader). It is very rare for a high school to have a gardening program, or just a simple place for a garden. Perhaps, it is an artifact better left in the simple classes of middle and elementary school—not fit for the rigours of AP and IB and whatnot. 
        While it may seem that a garden is too elementary and provides little teaching experience to students, the school garden and gardening skills in general are growing in demand and especially important in modern times. As our dependence on farmed and processed food rises, our food stability as a population will decrease. What happens when a drought strikes and our markets run out of food? We have suddenly all thousands of people trained with their AP scores and A+’s and whatnots, for what? It would seem much more safe for a population to have some skill and experience with gardening obtained in high school—whether that be from a whole semester class or integrated into another, like Foods Studies or Biology. 
        Especially in a society that is lacking food diversity and suffering from obesity, the skills and importance of teaching gardening early on is profound. Our over dependence on processed and marketed food is convenient, but unhealthy for both the individual and the stability of our economy. What happens if disaster strikes and a drought incurs? Will we all crowd our supermarkets and line up at Walmart or Superstore to shop empty shelves? Worse yet, as bigger conglomerates begin to monopolize our very food sources, and as GMOs and additives are increasingly becoming secretive and hidden, we have nowhere to go for trustworthy food. The occasional farmer’s market helps to keep the community alive and together, but what about the other three hundred and sixty some days that we are left to our own devices? 
        Emphasizing gardening as an important skill would alleviate some of these problems that we can all see the effects too well: growing obesity rates, heart attacks, excess food waste, and stores lined with rows upon rows of processed instant meals. Most colleges have botany programs for would-be scientists, and while not eliciting the same enthusiasm as a gardening program in elementary school would, these programs are certainly useful to the general public. 
        Whatever interest of gardening gleaned from elementary school memories of thirty schoolchildren crowded around a small pot is destroyed by the rigour of high school——an interest that not even the keenest and most passionate AP Biology teacher can replace. Even worse, trying to reignite that interest in what’s now called “botany” is even harder in college. Think—who thinks of their elementary school memories when deciding a major in college? 
        The point here is not to propose more people should become botanists, or that gardening, more scientifically “botany,” should be more respected a science. Rather, we should cultivate, simply, a love and appreciation for nature in high school. Just that simple action will help alleviate many of the problems in our society, as well as increase food stability for America and Canada. 
        From this broad perspective, it makes perfect sense for high schools to adopt more of a botanical perspective in their Foods or Sciences curriculum. Gardening is dirt cheap to set up and requires almost no commitment to the school. No need to worry to where to place the rich donor’s name, as would happen with a new football stadium, or who to give textbook money to. And of course, with the ample resources and space of high school, each student can have their own garden without being crowded around one tiny pea plant. 


        
1: “Oh my god. It’s getting SO big!” “You don’t see it? How can you not see it!” “Yeah. It must be getting bigger then.”