I have started a forum that includes discussion strings to consider as you read. You are to add your own thoughts to at least three of these categories. You must also respond at least one time to a classmate’s comment. Below are the discussion divisions for you to see and consider before you start discussing.
1. Parent-Child (Creator-Creation) relationships – responsibility, right ways-wrong ways, point being made?
2. Shelley's views on education
3. Allusions to Prometheus, Rime of the Ancent Marine, and Faust
4. Judgments on outward appearances
5. Fate and destiny – do they fit with Frankenstein?
6. Gregarious nature of man; i.e. friendship
7. Purpose of Walton & the letters
8. Victor Frankenstein's harmatia - psychological analysis (besides pride because yes it's there but there is more to discuss than pride)
9. Use of nature - Romantic Naturalism elements
10. How/where does the book deviate from Romantic Naturalism? Mary Shelley may have also been attacking deism – consider this idea as well.
11. Is the monster inherently good (Jean-Jacques Rousseau) or in a state of tabula rasa (John Locke) meaning an empty slate, neither good or bad? This would be from what you have read, not from personal opinion. What did Shelley want to portray to us? Look at his contact with society.




Shelley’s novel “Frankenstein” highlights the intimacy of the parent-child, or more specifically, the creator-creation, relationship. By calling the “spark” that gave Frankenstein’s monster its life, Dr. Frankenstein is inherently responsible for its well being. Dr. Frankenstein does not think this way, however, as he immediately leaves the monster after seeing the atrocity he has created. Thus, this plot calls into question the legitimacy of the attachment all parents must feel towards their child, or, in this case, the creator to his creation. There is nothing that binds us to our creations other than our own empathy and compassion—those who have neither have no objective or purpose to remain close to something they think is atrocious. While these two feelings of empathy and compassion are deeply rooted in our humanity and are essential to the human experience, Dr. Frankenstein leaves his creation after only a glimpse of its atrocity, thus implying he has neither empathy or compassion. However, the intimacy of his feelings for both Elizabeth and his family are made clear, thus we could say these feelings of empathy and compassion that would attach him to his “child” are gone once he feels the monster is atrocious. The two sides of Dr. Frankenstein’s nature provides an interesting contrast to the novel and shows humanity’s bias towards outwards appearance.


The settings in the novel also play an important role in the plot. We begin with Walton on an ice-breaker and end with Dr. Frankenstein dying on the same icebreaker in the desolate arctic climate. The setting also corresponds to the monster’s mood. When it still hasn’t experienced Dr. Frankenstein’s feelings of atrocity towards itself, it helps out a poor family and saves victims of crimes and does pleasant things to humans. The setting in these “happier” parts of the plot are matched to the monster’s moods: a homely setting, a forest, or a village. The endings, however, feature the monster enraged by Dr. Frankenstein’s lack of empathy for its situation and a corresponding desolate setting. These changes in setting amplify the monster’s moods and make the reader more empathetic towards the monster. We match its feelings, and its dialogue of being misunderstood matched with the appropriate setting makes us feel from its perspective.


Shelley also addresses humanity’s bias towards outward appearances and portrays this bias as one of the conflicts in the novel. While the monster starts with a “blank slate” at its creation, humanity’s disgust towards its appearance causes that “blank slate” to turn into despise and hatred towards his creator and consequently, all of humanity. The monster shows all human qualities when he tries to make friends with the blind old man. When this bias of outwards appearance is taken away, the monster can completely function in normal society. Its atrocious appearance conflicts with the rest of humanity’s bias, and his children shriek when they see an atrocious monster close to their father. Even the monster’s kindness is overlooked when his outward appearance is outside the “acceptable range.” Shelley suggests that outward appearance trumps other factors when it comes to first impressions.