Does true courage require to put something very important to us at risk?
        Courage is doing something that we may not have to necessarily do, but we want to do it, even though it may not even benefit us at all. It is facing difficulties that we can just leave, facing challenges that we don’t have to complete. It is not the preferred thing to do, and not everyone wants to do it. Courage is doing something that is very easy to fail, but we do it, regardless of the risks that we may have to face. We can only have true courage when we have sacrificed something that we have cherished for something, even though that “thing” may not even be better.
        Courage includes sacrifices, risks, and failures, but without them, it is not courage because there are none of those factors, or stimuli, that makes achieving courage so hard and difficult. If we don’t have anything important to us at risk, then the action we are doing is not courage, because there is no probability that we may fail. A good example of true courage was when I and my family decided to immigrate from Vietnam to Canada. My parents sacrificed a lot of things, including their golden life in Vietnam, with all the luxuries no one could ever dream of, such as a personal car driver, a house that is very big on a rich region, and a position very high in a large company. However, they decided to abandon all of that for a cruder one in Canada, a life where the benefits may not even really compensate for the sacrifices they have made. My parents also realized that the hundreds of hours they spent planning for the immigration, they may not even be allowed to be in Canada if the government or immigration agencies reject their application. However, they kept on trying, kept on believing that we could do it, and now, here we are, living a happy life in Canada. {






}
        True courage can result in putting many different things at risk. They do not have to by physical objects, like our bodies, but also non-physical, or intangible. I have to admit that it does take a lot of courage to put our bodies and life at risk when we are doing a dangerous activity, such as rock climbing or skiing down a very steep slope. The things that we sacrifice can also be intangible, such as our friends, our relationships, our emotional stability, or just our reputation. We need to have lots more courage to put those things at risk, because they can ruin our life not the way physical things do. I think that sacrificing intangible things is harder than sacrificing physical things because they can ruin a person’s life permanently. My friend Alex in my old school had once broken his arm long ago when playing basketball with me and his friends. He was very courageous when he said he was going to attempt to use one arm to throw the ball far across the court. However, it resulted in a big mess, and we saw Alex falling down, clutching his arm with great intensity. The broken arm affected his life greatly, but then, in the blink of an eye, the arm recovered to its normal status. However, being courageous with relationships is harder, because it affects our lives more than we think it does.
        Although many people say they or their friends or somebody else they met had “courage” when doing something, many times, it is not the true courage, because there is a guaranteed benefit and success in the act. True courage is something that may very likely fail and not give anyone benefit.