Does true courage require to put something very important to us at risk?
        Courage is doing something that we may not have to necessarily do, but we want to do it, even though it may not even benefit us at all. It is facing difficulties that we can just leave, facing challenges that we don’t have to complete. It is not the preferred thing to do, and not everyone wants to do it. Courage is doing something that is very easy to fail, but we do it, regardless of the risks that we may have to face. We can only have true courage when we have sacrificed something that we have cherished for something, even though that “thing” may not even be better.
        Courage includes sacrifices, risks, and failures, but without them, it is not courage because there are none of those factors, or stimuli, that makes achieving courage so hard and difficult. If we don’t have anything important to us at risk, then the action we are doing is not courage, because there is no probability that we may fail. The Vietnamese boat people were a very courageous group of people. They were very common in Vietnam after the Vietnam war had ended. Since Vietnam was in a crisis at that moment and not many people were happy with the current status of the corrupting Vietnam, so they decided to move to another country. Many of them traveled in their small, tiny boat to the big ocean, many of them dying along the way due to pirates or just natural events. The boat people sacrificed everything they valued such as their money, their boat, and their lives just to move or immigrate to another country. They were very courageous, even knowing with almost certainty that they would not reach land, they still did it. 
        True courage can result in putting many different things at risk. They do not have to by physical objects, like our bodies, but also non-physical, or intangible. I have to admit that it does take a lot of courage to put our bodies and life at risk when we are doing a dangerous activity, such as rock climbing or skiing down a very steep slope. The things that we sacrifice can also be intangible, such as our friends, our relationships, our emotional stability, or just our reputation. We need to have lots more courage to put those things at risk, because they can ruin our life not the way physical things do. I think that sacrificing intangible things is harder than sacrificing physical things because they can ruin a person’s life permanently. My friend Alex in my old school had once broken his arm long ago when playing basketball with me and his friends. He was very courageous when he said he was going to attempt to use one arm to throw the ball far across the court. However, it resulted in a big mess, and we saw Alex falling down, clutching his arm with great intensity. The broken arm affected his life greatly, but then, in the blink of an eye, the arm recovered to its normal status. However, being courageous with relationships is harder, because it affects our lives more than we think it does.
        Although many people say they or their friends or somebody else they met had “courage” when doing something, many times, it is not the true courage, because there is a guaranteed benefit and success in the act. True courage is something that may very likely fail and not give anyone benefit.