Book Donation Program


Give out treats/cookies/drinks for old used books. 


Costs: minimal costs for making incentives (~10 cents per cookie) 
Profits: massive amount of books collected from students.


Chocolate/bake sale
Costs: minimal costs for making incentives (~10 cents per cookie) 
Profits: Hungry, rich students buying sweets.


Art contest ($1 per entry, winner gets featured on some magazine)
Costs: none
Profits: one dollar for every submission


Sports tournament (dodgeball)
Costs: none
Profits: entry cost per team is $5. 




















































Kindlers Society has been running in UHill since the 2017-2018 school year and has hosted many successful fundraisers, including the Krispy Kreme donut sale and the slime sale. We have had about 15 members last year who had helped with fundraisers. 


Club meetings will focus mainly on brainstorming fundraising ideas and organizing fundraisers. Discussion items would include general logistics, discussion of results, and responsibilities for members, as we need the concerted effort of all of our members to make our fundraisers successful. As most of the work done in Kindlers Society will be around fundraisers, we will hold bi weekly meetings during most of the school year and will hold more frequent meetings if the need arises.


The UHill community, as a general, is one that has no problem getting textbooks they need or the education they deserve. Many have tutors and others buy textbooks to aid them in their classes or in enrichment opportunities. In this wealth of resources that the UHill community, in general, is surrounded in, we may lose the awareness that the majority of the world does not have the same full library as we do. 


The children in third-world countries that Kindlers Society attempts to help are no less deserving of a good education than us. Through Kindlers Society and its fundraisers and donations, these children are given the chance to achieve their potential and receive educational materials that come easily to us. 


This club will allow those who are passionate about education and giving back to the less fortunate to help children in other countries without access to books. This club will also allow students to practice their leadership and event-organization skills for those wanting to take leading roles.