All foods are different and similar from each other. That is why people give different foods different names, so they can recognize foods. Bun bo and spaghetti are similar in many aspects such as the color. Both of these foods have the color red in them. On the other side, bun bo and spaghetti are different. Bun bo is a water based food whereas spaghetti is not. Bun bo and spaghetti have many similarities as well as differences.
Spaghetti and bun bo have many similarities such as their edibility, ingredient, and temperature of acceptance. First, they are both foods and edible. Since many things and objects in this world is not edible, this characteristic is very important. Bun bo uses noodles as the main ingredient, otherwise, people would have to eat a lot of bowls of noodles to get full. Similarly, spaghetti uses noodles as its main food. However, the supporting foods are different. In bun bo, the supporting foods are spicy sauce, beef water, and vegetables. However, in spaghetti, the supporting foods are turkey sauce, ketchup, and meat. Furthermore, bun bo cannot be eaten cold, otherwise, it will taste really bad and nasty. The same also applies to spaghetti, because it needs to be eaten hot.
Despite these similarities, bun bo and spaghetti also have many differences. My brother’s favorite food is spaghetti and he always tries to avoid eating bun bo. In contrast, I like to eat bun bo and I always try to avoid eating spaghetti. I like bun bo because of its smell and taste, but I do not like spaghetti because of its weird smell. The color of the noodles in bun bo differs from the color of the noodle in spaghetti. In bun bo, the color of the noodles is white, but in spaghetti, the color is light yellow. Furthermore, bun bo is a water based food, which means that it is like soup, you eat with flavoured water.
Although bun bo and spaghetti are similar in many aspects, the differences outweigh the similarities. Both bun bo and spaghetti are both edible, this is very important because most things in the world are not edible. On the different side, bun bo is a water based food whereas spaghetti is not.