Conflict: get parents to apply for welfare (stigma by parents that welfare is for homeless, cultural values, humility, shame)        


I heard the Niagara's thunder before I could see it. I then could feel the cold mist of a combination of the 2 Great Lakes before I could see it. Then, the crowd of tourists opened up to the most majestic sight ever. All around me, except for the families cramped next to me on the railing, was an endless curtain of water dropping 60 feet down. This combination of Niagara’s thunderous noise, the cold mist of the 2 Great Lakes, and the majestic site, proved this vacation worthwhile. This was the dream vacation for us, me and my 2 parents. We had never had any vacations since we had moved to Canada. And for a while, the roar of tons of water crashing down deafened any worries I had. The muffled sound of a raspy cough then somehow managed to wrestle its way into the Niagara’s roar. I opened my eyes and looked around, searching for the source of this cough. I didn’t see the white waters crashing down onto Lake Ontario. The comforting deafening sound also disappeared. I only saw the yellow streetlights through my bedroom window. Another muffled cough fought its way through my shut bedroom doors and nestled itself into my ears, as if taunting me that my real life wasn’t a dream as I had dreamt. 
        The whole summer was spent with me learning what I could from the English books me and my mom had gone together to get from the library. We had so much fun decoding them with a black English-Vietnamese dictionary. 
        But slowly, I sensed that my English was definitely improving. When the first day of school came on September 1st, I woke up early at 5 AM and couldn’t go back to sleep, my heart beating with excitement. When I went out to look for food to eat, my mom sensed the commotion and woke up to, seemingly sharing the same excitement as I had. 
        “Oh, look at you! Make sure to introduce yourself to the teacher, Phat! They have to like you. Why am I so excited! I’m not even coming to school with you!” 
        With that, I let out a small, quiet laugh, and together, we shared a quiet moment together, with the morning chill and some sleepiness still washed over me. 
        “Will you let me go with you? Please!” 
I laughed a little, before switching to my frowning face, and uttered, “No” in the most terse way possible. We then both laughed out loud, as if there was nothing ever to worry about. 
        But the clock was ticking. And I certainly didn’t want to be late on my first day of school. 
        My mom had made my favorite Vietnamese dish: a compact rice cake stuffed on the inside with meat, egg, and vegetables. It was a complicated dish, even when packed tightly like my mom had done.
        School could not have gone any more normally, and at lunchtime, I picked a quiet spot near the corner of the cafeteria.
I begged my mom to pack more Western foods and less of the Vietnamese food. My friends made fun of me because of them. She agreed.
I begged my mom to stop buying me the Vietnamese slippers that I had so adored back in Vietnam. I described to her the kind of sneakers I wanted. The store that had sold them was 1 hour away by bus, and I forced my mom to take her work day off to go get the sneakers for me. She got the wrong sneakers. 
I was enraged. 
"Why had you gotten me the wrong sneakers!" 
"These are brown! I don't want brown! I want white!"
"What is your problem?" The sneakers and the receipt dropped down to the floor. A bolded $98.50 flashed before my eyes. I couldn't stop myself as I flung the receipt at her, but it only flopped down along with the sneakers. The receipt had only traveled so far until spiraling down. I picked up the sneakers sprawled on the floor and caught the receipt and handed them back to her.
"Just get me the correct one." 
I didn't bother to think the trouble she would be through: if she had actually decided to follow my instructions, then she would have to take another day off work. I was too preoccupied with my anger. I banged my table with the bottom of my fist, knocking over a water bottle. For what, I didn't know. 
I had to go to school the next morning with my old flippers, the ones I had used back in Vietnam.
"Ha! Fat's too poor to avoid shoes!" They shouted across the hallway, loud enough for everyone to hear. 
"My real name is Phat." I grumbled, but the sound of my slippers slapping the hard concrete floor was so loud that I could barely hear myself.
They went up to me, and grabbed my loose slippers and ran away. I was stuck with a feet with socks and one with slippers now. 
"Hey! Give it back!" I was angry now. I couldn't grab it back from them—they were too strong and too quick. Plus, I couldn't run with slippers, nonetheless a missing slipper. 
I looked around in vain, expecting a magic angel to come up and save me. And at that moment, I remembered my mom. It was all because of her. Why couldn't she just follow my simple instructions? I flung the other slipper into the wall. 
"I don't want this Vietnamese crap!" 
I stepped on the slipper and grinded it against the ground. I hated this slipper. Why did it have to be this way?  The buckle on the left then broke. I was satisfied. But I kept destroying this little flipper. It was the source of all of my problems.  
The day had been off to a perfectly disastrous start. I was lucky they gave me back my slippers. I was also lucky they called me "Fat" instead of any nickname based off the fact that I was wearing a slipper. 
I came back after school ended to an empty home[revise]. A sigh of relief escaped. I didn't have to deal with Mom's endless questions about how my day was[plot hole-mom is working?]. I kicked off my slippers and slammed the door shut. The slippers managed to get stuck in the doorway. Frustrated, I opened the door and slammed it closed again, trying to break the slipper. It didn't budge. 
Seeing the slipper contort to weird proportions, almost breaking but not yet, satisfied me. It was like my problems all summed up in one. The memory of my mom giving me the wrong sneakers popped into my mind again. It was because of her that my life was like this. Why couldn't we just be normal? 
My mom came home at 8:30. 
"Hello! Phat—Mom is home!" My mom called.
I pretended not to hear her. 
The clack of her shoes was followed by the creak of the stairs. Then, a knock on the door and I saw her. First, the wrinkled hand opening the door. Then, the smudged lenses of her glasses and her beaming face. Then, her rumpled black dress—the only one she had. And that was when I realized we were poor. 
"Phat!" She opened her arms and came in for a hug, as she usually does.
"How was school, today?"
"Pretty good," I was good at lying.
"You always say that. Give me a different answer. Only for today. Please."
"It's just good. There's nothing else to say." I gently pushed her away, hoping that it would encourage her to end the discussion. 
"Alright. See you at dinner in 30 minutes. I have a story to tell you, it's interesting. I promise."
Well, that didn't work out properly.
****
"So back in Vietnam, we were very poor, just like everybody else there. Everything we had, we treasured. Even little things like a bar of chocolate, we would examine it before eating. And how delicious it had tasted at that time." 
I had already heard this story many times over. She had repeated it almost weekly.
"But do you know the flipper that you wear to school?"
"Yes. The ugly red one, right?" I replied snarkily.
She continued on, unfettered by my remark. "It was actually your grandpa's, my father's, gift to me. But I already had flippers to wear, and it looked to new to be used in the dirty streets." I was transfixed now. "So I kept it in the original box. I had always had the temptation to use that slipper instead of my old one, which was uncomfortable and tattered. But I kept it for you. Do you like it?" 


I remembered my smile as the slipper almost broke as I crushed it against the door. I remembered me grinding the slipper in anger in the school hallway. I remembered throwing these slippers against my locker in anger. The slipper was not some nonsensical thing that I directed my anger at: it was the root of my problems. 


I also remember the wide smile as my mom gave it to me just weeks after we came to Canada, but before school had started, in a neatly wrapped box. I was smiling at that time too. The slipper was beautiful, and I too, thought it was too beautiful to risk going in the streets with it. How had I came from that to smiling as I destroyed the slipper? 
"Phat! Were you even listening to my story! You are only interested in the sneakers, right? You used to be such a good boy. Who are you now? You are not even Vietnamese anymore!" 
Her voice had raised to a shout now. She stared at me, as if looking for a response. I tried to muster one up to fill the silence, but my emotions had quelled any of my attempts. Why had I been this stupid! I ran out of the dining room, to find one slipper lying on the floor, the other upside down beside it. I picked it up: it was a thing of beauty. The scratches and tears down the middle were small enough: they didn’t matter at all now. I clutched them both in my hands. Something wet splattered on my left hand. Then on my right hand. I looked through my blurry eyes at the tears splashing down. I moved the slipper away, wary that it would get wet.
Out of the corner of my eyes, I could see my mom standing, staring intently at me. She didn’t know what I was going through.
Still holding the slippers tightly, I went up the stairs to my bedroom. The memories flashed back to me. How hard I had ground my foot on the slipper. How angry I had been about it. Just then, as I opened the door to my bedroom, I saw a big, brown plastic bag. Curious, I stepped inside and looked closer. Inside the bag was the pair of shoes I had wanted so much. It was _____. I realized there that it was my mom’s present to me. She wanted to surprise me. 


It broke my heart. I dropped the flippers on the bed gently, and lifted the sneakers out. Inside one sole, was a handwritten note: Hope you enjoy this! Love, Mom.


I looked back at the slippers, lying on my bed. I didn’t know what to think. Regret had filled every inch of my mind, and it shut down whatever thoughts I had. I couldn’t believe it. I looked out at the hallway, through the cracks of my bedroom door. I could hear the pans banging and the kitchen faucet running, a sure sign of my mom cleaning up after my unfinished meal. Why was she so nice? I wished that she had been meaner. Perhaps, shout back when I got angry at her for buying the wrong sneakers. That would have made me feel better right now. 


After a round of sobbing, I put the new sneaker in the far corner of my closet. I didn’t need it anymore. I couldn’t see why I had wanted it so much. I took my treasured slipper down the stairs and put it on the shoe rack, so I could wear it to school tomorrow. 


Gentle to prevent the edges from scraping the sidewalk, I skipped around the puddles on the way to school. My slipper could not touch anything dirty on the sidewalk. Halfway to school, I felt something loosen on the slipper. One of the joints where I had previously ground my feet in anger had worn out. I limped the rest of the way to school, grimacing each time as the joint became looser and looser. This joint was my family, my culture. 


As I opened the door towards the school, my slipper flopped on the concrete floor. It would be a miracle if I could make it to my locker before they saw my slippers. Just then, their eyes met mine, before shifting to my tattered slipper. 


“Phat’s got it again with those dank slippers! Ha!” 
“Those slippers look close to breaking under Fat’s weight!” 


I hurried to my locker, not wanting to bear their jeers anymore. They didn’t know that my slipper was my culture. It seemed, however, that walking faster had only made the loud slapping sound of my slipper and the floor even louder. However loud my slippers had been, however, their insults were always a level louder.


I couldn’t handle it anymore. I snapped around, turning on the toes of my slipper. They were right behind me, one in front, and his followers loosely stood behind him. They smiled, finally quiet, as if waiting to see what I could do. 


But I couldn’t bring myself to do it. I wasn’t that kind of person. Would my mom have liked this? I didn’t want to bore into her mind the fact that I was a bad child again. She probably had no notion of what a ‘bad child’ was—only vague pointers to what her parents had warned her about. To her, I was never Vietnamese, because all Vietnamese were supposed to be good children.




The slipper finally broke on [date]. My care for the slipper had diminished slowly as my mom alienated me, presumably from the previous incident. It was like any new shoe or toy I had gotten: I was obsessed with it for a week, but then after that, I had treated it like normal. And only when the slipper broke did I regret not treasuring the slipper like I had used to.


When I showed it to my mom after school, she only huffed and looked away. I stood there, confused, as I had thought that she would be mad. She now was typing away at her computer, couldn’t care less about the broken slipper. 
“What?” She turned to look at me, clearly annoyed that I was standing behind her back. 
“No...Nothing.” I quickly turned away to avoid her stare. But still, I couldn’t bring my legs to move. 


What must she have thought of me? 


The days passed, and then the weeks passed, and then the months passed without any more mentions of the slipper from my mom. But nonetheless, it still sat there in one corner of my room, still a little bit dirty from the wear and tear from walking on the streets, with the straps flopping out, exposing the insides of the slipper. I had always looked at it, but never once touched it apart from that day in which it broke. 


But no matter how hard I had tried to forget it, the occasional gust of air would send its straps flopping and hitting the base of the slipper, as if enticing me to notice it. Tap. Tap. Tap, it would call. But I could not bring myself to move the slipper to storage—for doing that brought its own taboo of hiding my own culture. 


**




I had bought 3 plane tickets to the Niagara Falls for my parents, as a present for their 65th birthday. More, I was entranced with the money I got from a lucrative 40 hour job, a “major upgrade from a nail salon slave” in my dad’s words when I phoned him about my new job. I had bought the tickets as a secret gift for my parents. I felt like being a good (child)/(son)/


I slammed the door open, and turned towards the window, where I had originally kept the slipper. Nothing was there, except for a pile of old, rusted nails. They had torn the carpet too, and only the underlying wooden floor, laden with nails and wood chips, was left. I looked desperately for the slipper. All I knew was that it was red, stained by some dark spots. And, of course, the fact that it was broken. Because of me. 


I opened the wardrobe, and still, only found old pieces of wood, presumably neglected there by the demolitionist. 


Oh! Gosh! I was mad at myself. Too busy with the stupid school applications, interning, and finding a job. I didn’t even think once about my mom, or my parents. I slammed the door open and looked down the hallway, to find only strewn carpets littered with the occasional household item that would spark old memories: the blue, plastic, engraved “Made in China” hair comb, or, perhaps, the unsolved rubik’s cube that occasionally went missing. I carefully navigated across the hallway, making sure to avoid the nails poking out, to my parent’s room. 


I searched every single corner of the room, to find a bland, grey Rubbermaid box. It was pristine, which was hardly a word to describe a grey Rubbermaid container. But in the context of my situation, and surrounded by dust and neglected items, it sparked my hope. 


I opened the box, grimacing as a cloud of dust rose up to meet my nose. In there, I could make out the broken slipper lying on top of a plastic bag. I picked it out. 


Under there, was a normal looking plastic bag, of course, fettered by the normal wear and tear that plagues everything. I opened the bag, curious to find what was inside. 


It had seemed forever, as I struggled to untangle the plastic bag. I could, however, feel what was inside: a hard, cardboard box. My hands trembled as I unraveled the box. I could already guess what was inside. It was a shoebox.


It wasn’t the glowing shoe that I had always dreamed of as a 14 year old kid. Now, it was only a normal looking, black shoe that had outlived its time. I still could see the receipt snuggled between the 2 shoes, in case I didn’t want it. She had known me so well.


And then, I wondered: why hadn’t she given it to me earlier? I clearly had expressed my liking for that shoe. A one of its kind. Everybody else had wanted it. And yet, she had not given it to me, when I had desperately most needed it. 


When I dug deeper, there was a letter, written in my grade-school paper. I feared what I was about to see, but still, I needed to see what my mom had written. Perhaps, it was never what I supposed it was. 


Was I supposed to be even viewing this? She was dead. But still, crawling like this through her things made me uncomfortable. Still, I couldn’t resist my curiosity, and read the letter. 






[DATE]
Ugh. It’s been a long day—only made longer by the fact that my son still hasn’t talked to me. I hope he’s being a good boy in school and around his classmates. But, how would I know if he keeps ignoring me? 


I researched those shoes today. They are nothing like the ones I would expect him to like. How about the slipper I had given him? It was treasure to me. I was so happy when I gave it to him: he was finally old enough now to appreciate it. He hasn’t known its culture yet. I will tell it to him today as a surprise. 


In the meantime, I have bought him the shoe he wants so much. I hope he likes it. We will probably not be able to go somewhere this summer. We have overrun our budget. Even somewhere close like Niagara Falls would be too expensive. Oh how I wish we could go there. I have only seen pictures of them. And yet, we are so close to it! People fly all the way from around the world to see this, and yet we can’t even see it! 


Maybe we will go someday. When Phat grows up and becomes a doctor? Oh gosh, I need to stop dreaming. 




[DATE+1]


I am so sad right now. I don’t think I can write. I have not had the chance to give him the shoe yet. I want to make him happy. But I don’t know how. I don’t think I can give it to him without crying. But I can’t do it. I can’t do it. I think I will cry now. I can’t write anymore. Phat, please talk to me. I don’t know how …


The last few words were smudged ink. I couldn’t read them. In fact, even if they weren’t smudged, I couldn't read them. I was crying too.