Transportation has always been a problem to us after we had inhabited this Earth. Even now, where the technology that we have now has evolved many times, we still have problems for transportation. However, our forms of transportation have improved a lot in the recent years. At the time where cavemen, Cro-Magnons, mammoths were still roaming the planet, there had been different problems to transportation, but as technology evolves, old problems are solved, but new problems pop up as if there were countless problems. I hope that humans will be free of problems in transportation someday. 


Everyday, tankers and supertankers travel across the ocean to deliver. However, their traffic is becoming much bigger.  A new report says that the risk of oil tankers entering and exiting the British Columbia coast has a risk that is higher than previously predicted. If you are curious about how an oil spill affects BC, take a ride on one of the ferries that take the route that more than two hundred other supertankers take. The route takes over twelve hours and bypasses some of the deepest wilderness in the country, possibly on the planet. Once the ferry leaves the harbour, it then goes through the Inside Passage, a surprisingly small, but deep channel. From there is where all the wonderful wilderness starts. You can see almost all sorts of things, grizzly bears looking for salmon, orcas competing for fish, dark spots of whales skimming beneath the waves.... The only thing that you cannot see is humanity, because the place is so remote. Then, imagine two hundred plus tankers travelling through the channel in a day like this, with risks of having an oil spill, because the tanker is so big, and the passage is so small. Then, imagine if there was an oil tanker travelling right beside you, and it leaks. See how hard it is for rescuers to get to here, it may take days in good weather. Yet, more supertankers are travelling through this small passage. If an oil spill happens, fish and other aquatic animals will drink, which will die, also, it seeps up the soil and rocks, ruining the whole wilderness.


I would rather stop all companies that have supertankers or even tankers to enter the passage than just leave it so that companies can send as much tankers as they want.  I wish that the Prime Minister would do that. While whales and other animals were roaming the Earth, humans just came and kill them.