Science has inspired me to do many great things that other famous people did, like inventing the lightbulb since I was born. Thomas Edison invented many things, that helped humans, he is not making humans worse. I think he was getting his ideas from experimenting alone, while Thomas Edison was realizing what humans needed the most, in this case, it is the light bulb, and invented it. Anyways, if I were an inventor, I would mainly get my ideas from inspiration, what others did, and I would improve it. 


  Anyways, if I could invent something, I would invent a box, the size of a Rubik’s Cube, that have a hole so that anything that goes in it shrinks, and when we pull it out, it goes back to normal size. So if I had a super light computer, I could put it into the box and shrink it down to the size of a Rubik’s Cube or smaller as if it had just disappeared. However, I do not think that that is possible because I doubt that scientists know how to shrink stuff. Also, the box can store multiple items, like in the last example, if I have 2 super light computers, then I could put 2 of those in, maybe even 3. However, there must be a limit to what you can put inside. In this case, you cannot put a refrigerator inside because it is too big for the box to handle. In addition to the limit, there must be a price for it too, and are there that much substances in the Earth that can support it. In other words, if one of those boxes needs 1 gram of diamonds for it to operate, than no way that it can go to the market, it is too expensive! Also, it must be surprisingly affordable, for the poor and rich families, so that they can enjoy having it and using it. However, I do not think that the invention would make it’s way to the modern and human world, but it would be great to figure out how it can do that. In addition to the discovery, I think that we are going to discover greater things because maybe some of the things that we discover in the cube may lead us to other inventions such as making things dissapear sciencetificaly! 
  If such things could happen, the world will be filled with surprises and happiness. I think that if  humankind tries harder, they will make the box.