An Experience that Taught Me a Lesson
        My parents always told me to choose my friends carefully. They said that if I play with bad people, then I would be bad too. However, if I play with good people, then I would be good. I followed the advice carefully, but I did not realize the importance of it until something bad actually happens to me. Now, after a terrible experience that punished me with not following the “golden rule” that my parents told me every time. Now, I have realized the deleterious denouements that would happen if I played with bad people. 
        It was a normal gym period, where we played handball, when it was our team’s turn to play with the opposing team. All was normal until the part where I accidently tripped my opponent, making him upset and aggressive. After gym, I silently told myself that I could have been more chary and avoided the situation. Then, the opponent that I tripped aspersed me, saying that I was a bad player and I should have been penalized. I responded by saying that it was an accident and I did not deliberately do that. After a long diatribe with him, I continued on with my day. Although the gym experience was not really relevant with the rule that my parents put out, learned that if I have played with him, my behavior would be like that too when somebody accidently trips me, and I would have a bad reputation.
        I think that I was also culpable because I was a bit cynical of the other team’s success in handball. If I had not been a cynic, this whole situation would not have happened. However, I would not have learned the importance of choosing a good friend if this situation did not arise, so for every bad thing in life, there is a good thing. Also, I learned that I have to be more chary around people that I already have a bad reputation with, because they may be more sensitive when I am around. Other than those things, I also learned to control my anger and stay calm. Although it was just an accident, he acted like it was a very big situation.
        I have learned a lot from the experience and I do not think I would encounter another problem regarding the things that I just learned after the handball accident. After that, I finally realized the potential of the golden rule that my parents put out for me that helped me become a better person.