#29
Outcast, ignored; Wishing being different; Love, like lark, rises; Love above everything;


The speaker in this poem first laments his “state” (later used as a pun in “the state of kings,” 14), and wishes he could be any other man. He then remembers his love, and, “like to the lark at break of day arising” (11), his grief is overturned from “sullen earth” (12) in turn for happiness and longing for life. 


There is personification in line 3 (“trouble deaf heaven”), simile in lines 6, 7, and 11. Shakespeare’s personification and symbolism in line 3 (“deaf heaven”) also reflect the Renaissance’s combination of the Christian and the Humanistic worldview. Shakespeare’s “deaf heaven” reinforces the change taking place between the spiritual and the human. As less and less people thought of the idea of living shut-up in a monastery as romantic, their faith for God decreased, and “deaf heaven” supports the fact that God might not always be there.


Line 13, “For thy sweet love remembered such wealth brings,” strikes as an interesting play on the idea of “wealth brings love,” as well as sounding pleasant, perhaps because of the meter. While it took a few readings for me to understand the meaning, looking back, I admire the sweet-sounding nature of this quote as well as the play on words. 




#71
Goodbye to vile world; Forget me; Love decays with time; Dissociate yourself


Shakespeare uses alliteration in line 2, “surly sullen,” to dramatize the gloomy effect of these words. He also uses a metaphor (“But let your love even with my life decay,” 12) to associate falling love with decaying life, which sums up all the claims made in the previous lines in a depressing, resigned tone from someone who has given up and only hopes for the best for his loved. 


The sonnet reads almost as a letter sent after the speaker has died—reassuring the reader not of a chance against death, but rather encouraging him/her to let go of death, and to forget the dead entirely. 


While all three quatrains contain a certain depressive tone, the ending couplet provides a darker reason for letting go of love for the future and for reputation, an important aspect of the culture. 


#116
True love is unalterable; Stands fixed; Transcends time; Error is impossible


There is personification throughout the poem in describing love, which doesn’t alter “when it alteration finds,” bend “with the remover to remove” (3-4), and as “an ever-fixed mark/… and is never shaken.” These all reinforce the general idea of an unalterable love, even in the face of alteration. 


Perhaps, the focus on love in this sonnet is representative of the worldview of the time, as human experiences were taking precedence over spiritual experiences. Love is strong, lustful, and passionate, all opposite of the mantras that the Church has adopted. A sonnet commemorating this act which goes again most of the principles of austerity and chastity that the Church encourages.