Climate change has been a threat for many years since the humans inhabited the Earth. The arctic and ice caps shrinking persuade tourists from all around the world to come and experience the wilderness. As the ice caps shrink, the passage between Europe and Asia opens up while causing more commotion in the arctic, boosting the ice to melt. Anyways, climate change has grown big enough; now, we need to stop it quickly.
Scientists and policy makers are having a discussion in White Horse about the upcoming wave of tourists wanting to see the pure wilderness of the arctic. There have been an increasing number of tourists in the arctic taking photographs and touring, from the comfort of the cruise ships. Amazingly, cruise ships are able to travel to the Arctic for tourists to see the wonderful wilderness. Even though some countries might welcome visitors to the Arctic, biologists fear that the essence of humans will make the ice worse.
The Arctic council has 8 countries, including Canada that issues reports in the Arctic about the temperatures, birds, ice thickness, and many more. The Arctic council is setting up a system that natives and other people inhabiting the arctic can participate in the events such as bird counts, measuring ice thickness, et cetera.
Permafrost is a layer or many layers of dirt or natural substances in Earth that freezes annually. That means in the summer, it still freezes, helping to keep the arctic cool and prevent it from overheating in the summer. However, as chunks of ice and permafrost are melting, the arctic might be getting warmer than predicted in the last few years. In fact, it is getting warmer, according to scientists. For some reason, the arctic is warming up much quickly than the rest of the world. Maybe that has something to do with the increased humans and ships. Not only the melting ice attracts tourists seeking an adventure, but it also attracts oil and gas companies to go there, making great profit as if the ice caps were a tourist location.
Anyways, I think that if people go to the wilderness, eventually, the place will be ruined, for highways, farms....  Also, unlike other sightseeing places, it is very hard to restore any damage in the arctic, because of the harsh weather conditions and increased tourists. Spring is arriving earlier too. Winter is getting shorter and shorter; summer is getting longer and longer. I hope these signs will make scientists and people more and more aware of climate change, and what we should do about it. If humans had not inhabited this Earth, such things like climate change would have not happened. I do not think that we did not do the right thing because while people were running bad cars, ice caps were melting.