There are lots of jobs on this planet, from engineers to doctors to architects. However, I am just going to talk about dentists, which are also doctors, today. I think every person has a bad experience with dentists, including me. Dentists are very useful, but their tools and the technique they use causes a lot of pain in the mouth. Do not think that being a dentist is easy, you need professional skills to be one. Also, keeping your teeth clean is very important, as it keeps you healthy and prevents germs. I have been through several visits to the dentist, but I have only been to one of them that hurts. 


On my first visit to the dentist, it looked as if it had been an emergency room, with all those people around me. At that time, I was very small, as small as a three year old. At first, I thought that the process would hurt a lot, but I was wrong, it actually felt good. Somehow, the weird feeling of the operation felt good, but it is weird. My mom had sent me for a cleaning, a normal thing that I have every year. Now, compare that to this memory, which is also related to going to the dentist. While my mom brought me to the dentist long ago, I was thinking that it was the usual cleaning. However, I was wrong. Well, the first part did not hurt that much, just some prep for the second part, which hurted a lot. The dentist somehow scratched my teeth (which I liked), but he pulled up my gums with a sharp tool. It went on like that for what seemed like a long time, and I kept wincing whenever the dentist pulled too hard. When I caught a glance at his mirror, I would rather be shocked than scared! There was a lot of blood trickling down my teeth and gums! I thought the dentist made a mistake, which I do not appreciate that much, but he looked so calm. While I was being at the dentist, I was wishing that I did not go here in the first place, and hoping that the operation would be done soon. Finally, he was done and allowed me to use a tool to get all of my boo in my mouth out in a matter of seconds. When I asked mom why she would let him do that too me, she answered that the dentist was cleaning my gums! I never realized it until that moment! If I had not been there, I would have not known the pain that I might have to endure in future visits to the dentist.


Then, my mother drove me and my brother home. It felt so good to be at home, not feeling pain in the gums every 5 seconds. I am thinking that you probably have a bad experience with dentists, if you have ever been to the dentist.