Is physical exercise important in schools?


Are physical exercises that important in schools? Everyday, teachers and staff members of the school meet together to discuss on shortening recess times and play times or shortening gym times. They do not pay attention to the importance of physical exercise. Physical exercise allows students to refresh themselves. After long hours sitting staring at a computer screen or at problems, I tend to do things less efficiently. After a couple of minutes distracting myself from my desk, I work more efficiently and more easily. However, physical education can be disadvantageous for students who are trying to attend competitive colleges or universities. These students have loads of homework to do and tons of class material to review. They do not have time for exercise like average students. However, many experts and scientists have stated that healthier students are better learners.
Many benefits of increasing the amount of physical activities include higher marks and better learners. Running laps, stretching, or anything that involves physical activities help students to work more effectively. Whenever I write essays, I always take a break and go outside every one hour. After I take a break, my eyes spot mistakes on my essay that I have never noticed before. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, students who receive more physical education achieve higher scores on tests. They have also conducted an experiment with girls. The experiment have proved that girls who receive physical education achieve higher test scores than girls who do not receive physical education. In addition, Charles E. Basch of the Southern Illinois University have said that healthier students are better learners.
On the other hand, lots of physical education can stress out students who are preparing to enter competitive colleges or universities. They have loads of homework to do and tons of class material to review. Therefore, how are they going to do all of these things and physical education. In addition, their homework is way more advanced than their friends’ homework. However, there is a simple solution to that problem. Many places now offer physical education courses in the summer; therefore, students can skip physical education classes in schools and do them in the summer. John Ng., my uncle who have lived in Los Angeles, wanted to go to a good university when he was in his 20’s. He skipped PE class and did them in the summer. As a result, he got into a competitive university very easily. Students are effectively using their free time; instead of doing nothing, they can use that time wisely to finish their physical education courses. While other students are doing physical education during the school year, they will review or do the advanced homework. 
Physical education is very important, especially in schools. Students cannot work effectively without doing physical exercises. In addition, physical education benefits students mentally; as Charles E. Besch stated, healthy students are better learners. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) have stated that students achieve higher marks with physical education. CDC have even conducted an experiment with girls. They have realized that girls who receive physical education achieve higher test scores than girls who do not receive physical education. On the other side, students who are trying to enter competitive colleges or universities will be very stress out. However, teachers can allow students to skip PE classes, but learners have to do them during the summer break. In conclusion, physical education should be increased, not decreased in public schools.