“How many APs are you taking?” 
“Four. Macro, micro, chem, and human geo.” 
“No. That’s 3. Human geo doesn’t count,” goes the typical conversation in University Hill Secondary, the smallest public school in Vancouver, located inside the University of British Columbia. 


It’s students are top-notch, and the school sent 7 of its students to elite colleges in the United States, out of a graduating class of 150 students. Unsurprisingly, almost all of them had went into STEM majors. This trend remains similar for the rest of the students, mostly going to UBC and UoT: a large majority still are insistent on STEM majors even though humanities has been their strong aspect all throughout high school. 


While countless statistics and news articles exemplify how luxurious of a life computer scientists and programmers must be having right now, and how much demand there is for such professions, it certainly doesn’t warrant the complete abandonment of humanities. 


Especially troubling, however, is the lack of funding for poorer schools, who would have to downsize arts and music departments in order to preserve their higher demand STEM departments.


This trend doesn’t just spell the beginning of a new revolution or what tech fanatics call it to be—it has real consequences no matter how much technology or STEM becomes integrated into our lives. Rather, the arts, and more generally, the humanities, has a necessary human element that all STEM subjects lack. It is this human element that, rightly so, keeps us all humans instead of intelligent machines obsessed with abstracting the real world in a series of equations. The truth is, we don’t just need writers and artists and musicians to produce the short-sighted entertainment for tired working-class adults.
There will always be the writers and the artists and the musicians, but that still doesn’t mean the rest of the population of the world can’t enjoy writing or sculpting or singing.


This “STEM farming” vibe in many schools, especially feeder schools to more prestigious post-secondary institutions is not just detrimental to the students themselves, but we should be wary of the overall trend across all the schools. Part of this trend might have to be attributed to parents pushing their otherwise social sciences destined children to major in the supposedly more “stable STEM” majors.