“It is in your moments of decision that your destiny is shaped”


Do our decisions or our endowments define us, which one more?


                There are many ways to define a human being; some define by the choices that a human makes, but others define it by the possessions that one has. I certainly believe that the decisions that one makes are the ones that truly define a person and what makes them unique from everyone else and the other human beings in the world and in Planet Earth. Many objects and other tangible items do not honestly and do a very bad job of defining an individual. It fails to show many of the abstract subjects of the human personality and being. 
Our human endowments are only temporary objects-they do not hold any value in defining the complex beings that we are today. They cannot define a person, because it is the choices that he or she makes and what he does with the objects that make a difference and not the objects themselves. The human race and the individuals in it are not defined by the things or objects or endowments that they have; how can such a simple thing define this complex, ever changing, and evolving race? There are many factors and areas of a human that just objects cannot cover, such as our thinking process or our health condition. In addition, many objects that a person possesses do not hold a true representation of the person. Many objects are holding a false meaning of the person, which is still not the definition.
                The real thing that mostly defines our life is the decisions that we make every day. In
contrast the objects that belong to us, the decisions represent most (or all)of the aspects of our human being, including our thinking process and our minds. Bad decisions will represent a bad or not well educated or a careless person, while good decisions may represent a well educated and a good and a
respectful person. For example, being born into wealthiest does not represent at all a person’s personality or the other parts, except for maybe their roots or inheritance. My brother had a friend named Ashymash who was born into a very wealthy family. Therefore, he really liked to play tennis and watch animes such as Clannad during his free-time. In addition, because of the wealthy family, he did not achieve very good grades and had a very bad influence on his friends. Therefore, rich and beautiful possessions don’t necessarily mean a good person.
        The definitions of a human being is never a fixed and static and final thing. In fact, it is a changing thing, changing as the human progresses in life and does good things or bad things, depending. In addition, I think that there are multiple definitions for a single person, and that there could be no complete, definite one because of the vast complexness of the human race. However, defining a unique individual just by using the things that they possess is not a very definitive definition, as the person has way more dimensions than just the materialistic things in this world.