Line 26: “And justifie the wayes of God to men.”


The word choice in this quote is certainly interesting, as Milton in writing this epic, surely did not mean the modern definition of “justify”—that is, to prove something thought wrong, or false, right. Milton’s intended audience at the time had all believed in Christianity, whether it be theism or christian humanism, their worldviews all had foundations in Christianity, so there was no need to “justify” a belief that was already widespread. 


Rather, I think that Milton meant to give his audience a better image of the story of Adam and Eve. Nowhere in the story had he doubted any part of the Christian worldview—only complemented it with his own imagination and wrapped an entertaining epic poem around this story. This “justification” Milton means is more of an elaboration, or an explanation, and he makes no attempt to rebut some of the claims against Christianity or somehow try to “prove” the existence of God. Therefore, the fact that Milton is a Christian Theist or Christian Humanist doesn’t matter, and this quote only shows Milton’s desire to elaborate on what he thought was an interesting story of “Man’s First Disobedience.” 


Line 263: “Better to reign in Hell, then serve in Heav'n.”


This quote is similar to “Better to be a big part of a small thing than a small part of a big thing.” For a modern example, leading a protest in a small city or with a small change is better than being one of thousand of a bigger protest. Perhaps, those who follow this quote believe that leading, not matter how small and irrelevant, is still much harder and impressive than following a big group, similar to how the narrator would rather rule something inferior than be a small servant in something superior. 


From the supplementary document look more closely at the temptation of Eve. Discuss two of the serpent’s arguments that Satan still uses today to tempt us. Why are they still working so well?




        The narrator first uses flattery and calls Eve a “Queen of this universe,” with “dauntless virtue,” and a “Goddess humane.” This first opens up her heart and mind to any sort of tactic the narrator will use subsequently, as it is common knowledge that complimenting someone profusely will make them more likely to like you. In fact, once he has secured Eve’s trust and admiration, any sort of tactic the narrator will use will work, as she is now held by her flattered emotions and is unable to think logically. 
        The narrator uses this and talks her into eating the apple using simple persuasion. Eve, blindly following the narrator and held captive by emotions, rashly snatches the apple and eats it, succumbing to the narrator’s persuasion. 
        These arguments work well because they align closely with the weakness of human nature to flattery. Once we are able to cross the trust barrier, and keep the logical side down by holding captive their emotions, almost anything is possible—even something as simple as eating an apple.