Food and water has been the main food source for humans since the prehistoric times. Not only foods serve as a living source, but it also plays a role in changing our moods. That’s because whenever we see food that tastes good, it brightens our mood. Therefore, we do not get that much of an appetite when it comes to foods that do not taste good to use. There are some foods that I really like, but there are also foods that I do not like. I hope that I will not be encountering this situation ever again in my life.
Anyways, some of the foods that I did not like were not cooked often by my mom. One of the foods that I especially did not like was curry. If you are thinking “Curry is so good, how could you not like it!” Well, the curry that my mom had made is not normal; it was somehow sour and acidic. Normally, my mom does not make a mistake when she is making food for our family. However, in this case, I think that she inserted the wrong ingredients, or added too much vinegar. At first, I thought that the curry was really good, even though my brother and my dad thought it was bad. Therefore, I quickly ate what was left in my bowl, ate some more of the other foods before eating the curry. I did not know what the taste what like, so I took a lot of curry as if it had been my favorite food. While I was eating my first spoonful of curry, I was noticing that the taste was very acidic. Unfortunately, I did not listen to my dad’s and brother’s advice, so I had to eat all of it before I could leave the table. Fortunately, my dad and my mom had the same experience, so they let me and my brother dump the bowls of the nasty tasting curry. In the end, I suspected that it was the coconut juice that my mom put in the curry. Maybe the coconut juice has expired, or something just happened to the coconut itself. I would rather believe the fact that the coconut water was acidic than my mom making a mistake. I wish that the curry that my mom made was not acidic because I like that type of curry, not the ones that you eat with bread. 
In my opinion, curry has not been in my favorite foods list for several times, but it is definitely in my list now. I also learned that if I had not taken so much curry, I would have not been that disgusted.