Beowulf is an epic set in Scandinavia in the Anglo-Saxon period, with heroes, dragons, and epic battles. Analyzing these quotes gives us further information on Scandinavian values and culture, as well as deeper interpretations of the poem.






“Behavior that’s admired is the path to power among people everywhere.”


This quote is reinforced throughout the book, most notably with Beowulf. His behaviour remains admired, from when he was a warrior to, eventually, when he became king of the Geats. Other rulers in the poem, such as Hrothgar, also have admirable behaviour. 


Historically, leaders have risen to power with the help of their admired behaviour, and many have maintained their positions in the same way. When a leader turns rogue, or their behaviour stops being admired, the people are compelled to vote for a different leader (in a democratic society) or revolt (in an authoritarian society). For example, in the English Civil War, the king’s behaviour wasn’t admired by the people, partly due to his extravagance in a time of poverty, which is what lead to his downfall.


This quote also applies to the present. Cheerful, admirable leaders are much more likely to gain the respect of the people. This principle stretches from leaders of entire countries, to leaders of a small company project. Across all of these circumstances, admirable behaviour is the path to power. 


“Often when one man follows his own will, many are hurt.”


Although Beowulf is portrayed as a great king with great determination, his determination and stubbornness is what brought him to his death, fighting the dragon. Even though everybody had convinced him to abandon the revenge, Beowulf was a man who seldom listened to other’s advice, and died trying to fight the dragon.


Many historical revolts, genocides, and civil wars have resulted in leaders getting caught up in their own will, and being deaf to their advisors. A prime example is the Holocaust: Hitler had followed his own will despite the people’s suffering. Another example could be WWII, which involves multiple men each with their own conflicting needs. 


And through endless recurrences of disasters initiated by one man’s will throughout history, we have developed a tight set of rules, namely democracy, that spread power out over multiple people. Given that most of revolts or genocides had happened under authoritarian governments, under modern democracies, it would be impossible for one man to garner enough power to harm people.




Interpretation


        The introduction made me think Beowulf was a dry read, with nothing but nonsensical names and hard to pronounce words. I expected that half of the words would be some ancient dialect and incomprehensible to me. The dragons and fights would just be convoluted, antiquated words that I couldn’t understand. After all, it was one of the oldest works of English literature. And, the fact that it was a poem. I hated poems. I couldn’t be any more wrong. 
        Beowulf captured me from the very start. Soon, I found myself engrossed in Beowulf’s adventure across the sea to save Heorot, his might when killing Grendel and it’s mother, all the way to his death from the dragon. 
        One thing that struck me as interesting was the kennings, particularly “ring-giver” and “son of …” to describe characters. In a modern book, this would be understandable near the beginning, but names would be used after the reader has known the character. In Beowulf, however, kennings extend all the way to the end of the poem. Instead of referring to Hrothgar, the author writes “son of Halfdane,” and instead of saying “Beowulf,” the author writes “son of Ecgtheow.” Perhaps, this could prove the strength of kinship in their society, or the importance of given titles rather than names. 
        The differences between our culture and the culture in Beowulf is intriguing as well. Their relationships are much more tightly bound, and often have real mutual benefits, as well as tangible consequences if the relationship goes sour. Our modern society, however, is more individualistic. Even relationships within the family are not as strong as the ones in Beowulf. Divorce in Beowulf’s society would have ousted the family out of any social circle, while divorce in our modern society is only seen as an inconvenience.