I have picked four quotes that I think are memorable and fit with the historical, modern, and biblical levels of interpretation. Add your thoughts on how at least two of these quotes can be interpreted on these levels. You don’t need to talk about all the levels but a multi-faceted discussion will be a lot more interesting. You need to check back, read your classmates comments, and actually discuss these quotes.
1. Behavior that’s admired is the path to power among people everywhere
2. Anyone with gumption and a sharp mind will take the measure of two things: what's said and done
3. In a man of worth the claims of kinship cannot be denied.
4. Often when one man follows his own will, many are hurt
Besides the quotes, add at least 3 interpretation elements to the discussion. You must give at least two original ideas and you must comment on at least one other person’s interpretations. What are you seeing? What does this all make you think of beyond Vikings and monsters? Any other quotes you thought should have been in the quote gallery? Use this to practice the interpretation elements we discussed last week.
\


Beowulf is an epic set in Scandinavia in the Anglo-Saxon period, with heroes, dragons, and epic battles. Analyzing these quotes gives us further information on Scandinavian values and culture, as well as deeper interpretations of the poem.






“Behavior that’s admired is the path to power among people everywhere.”


This quote is reinforced throughout the book, most notably with Beowulf. His behaviour remains admired, from when he was a warrior to, eventually, when he became king of the Geats. Other rulers in the poem, such as Hrothgar, also have admirable behaviour. 


Historically, leaders have risen to power with the help of their admired behaviour, and many have maintained their positions in the same way. When a leader turns rogue, or their behaviour stops being admired, the people are compelled to vote for a different leader (in a democratic society) or revolt (in an authoritarian society). For example, in the English Civil War, the king wasn’t admired by the people, partly due to his extravagance in a time of poverty,