Holes movies/books
Many famous books have been made into movies. Unfortunately, the movies are not exactly the same as the book. For example, in the Holes book, in the flashbacks, Stanley was bullied in school. However, the movie did not show the flashbacks, so we did not know that Stanley was being bullied before he was sent to Camp Greenlake. However, the Holes book and the movie of course has similarities. For example, both in the book and the movie, Stanley was accused of stealing Clyde Livingston's shoes. Although the Holes book and movie have similarities, they also have many differences.
The Holes movie and book has many similarities such as the characters and the plot. The Holes movie has the same characters with the book. Some of the main characters that appeared in both the movie and the book includes Mr. Sir, Dr. Pendanski, Stanley, and the other youths who are in Camp Greenlake. Most of the plot of the movie is similar with the plot from the book. For example, Stanley is accused of stealing shoes from a very famous athlete. In the book, he then goes to court and the judge gives him two options, which are jail and Camp Greenlake. The movie also shows that, where Stanley goes to court and is given two options. In addition, in the book, Stanley runs away and tries to find Zero, his friend. They help each other to the onion orchard. In the movie, Stanley also ran away and helped his friend to the onion farm.
Despite these similarities, the book and the movie have many differences. The book shows that Stanley had been bullied in his school before he was sent to Camp Greenlake. In the book, Stanley thinks of what would happen if the youths from Camp Greenlake go to his school. However, in the movie, we do not know that Stanley was being bullied before he went to Camp Greenlake. Also, in the book, Sam asked the teacher for six jars of spiced peaches for the roof to be fixed. In contrast, in the movie, Sam only asks for 3 jars of spiced peaches for the roof to be fixed. In the book, the teacher was in the boat when Sam was shot. However, in the movie, the teacher was on the shore when Sam was shot.
The Holes movie and book are similar and different in many ways. For example, in the book, we know that Stanley had been bullied before he was sent to Camp Greenlake. However, the movie did not show that Stanley was bullied. However, most of the plot of the movie and the book is similar. The movie and the book was all together great, but the book was a bit better.