Holes movies/books
Many famous books have been made into movies. I think it is a big difference to read the book, then watch the movie. I can go at my own pace, skipping lines and rereading paragraphs, and that means I will understand it a little differently. For example, when I read the Holes book, what I understand is completely different from what I understand when I read the movie. I think it is not just the differences between them that makes me understand differently, but it is also the pace. Although the Holes book and movie have similarities, they also have many differences.
The Holes movie and book has many similarities such as the characters and the plot. The Holes movie has the same characters with the book. Some of the main characters that appeared in both the movie and the book includes Mr. Sir, Dr. Pendanski, Stanley, and the other youths who are in Camp Greenlake. I am glad that they did not change or add new characters because it would be very hard to understand the movie. Most of the plot of the movie is similar with the plot from the book. For example, Stanley is accused of stealing shoes from a very famous athlete. In the book, he then goes to court and the judge gives him two options, which are jail and Camp Greenlake. The movie also shows that, where Stanley goes to court and is given two options. In addition, in the book, Stanley runs away and tries to find Zero, his friend. They help each other to the onion orchard. In the movie, Stanley also ran away and helped his friend to the onion farm.
Despite these similarities, the book and the movie have many differences. The book shows that Stanley had been bullied in his school before he was sent to Camp Greenlake. In the book, Stanley thinks of what would happen if the youths from Camp Greenlake go to his school. However, in the movie, we do not know that Stanley was being bullied before he went to Camp Greenlake. This does not affect the movie completely because I think that Camp Greenlake and digging holes has nothing to do with being bullied at school. Also, in the book, Sam asked the teacher for six jars of spiced peaches for the roof to be fixed. In contrast, in the movie, Sam only asks for 3 jars of spiced peaches for the roof to be fixed. In the book, the teacher was in the boat when Sam was shot. However, in the movie, the teacher was on the shore when Sam was shot.
The Holes movie and book are similar and different in many ways. Many people say the book is better than the movie, but I think that the first one that we see/read is better because we still do not know the surprises and the plot. Therefore, if I were to see the movie first then read the book, I would think the movie is better because I would have no idea what surprises are waiting for me.