4/26-27/17
        Your old villain quit over creative differences, so you’ve put yourself in charge of hiring a new villain for your novel. What questions do you ask? What does the new villain’s resume say? Write this scene as if it were a job interview.


“Hello, is this Mr. A’s office?” A black-clad man holding a briefcase asked.
“Wow.” The half confused, half frightened intern managed to croak out in response to this briefcase man, “Are you the… Nimble Wonderman?”
He nodded unmoving, only confirming the receptionist’s confusion about the man, who looked about the same as a villain in a movie, coming to her bosses office for an… interview? 
Still slightly doubtful, she walked from her chair and leaded the man towards Mr. A’s office, but always keeping an eye on the queer man, in case he did anything… suspicious. 


She had expected the man to be led out after Mr. A had seen this odd man, and expected Mr.A to be as confused as she was to why the man was even here. 
“Welcome! Is your name…” Mr. A peered up from his long list of other villains. Curious, the intern stole a look from his list and was even more shocked when she saw the other names. “The Wanderer,” “Alien Scout,” “Wretched Mime.” 
Mr. A went down his list and looked up, “Is your name the Nimble Wonderman?” Mr. A mentioned the villain looking guy to his office, shocking the intern even more. 


“Have a seat please… Mr. Nimble Wonderman.” The villain looking dude reached inside his briefcase for a dirty looking paper. 
Mr. A peered at the crumpled and stained document he got, trying to decrypt the faded ink to see if it was a resume or something different. 
“What are you looking at. It’s my resume.” 
5/13/15
        The Gauss contest that I took on this day was very easy. Very unlike from the past contests I have seen from their website, this contest was very easy, and I was pretty sure I got all of the questions correct and only 1 question wrong because I made a “silly mistake”. That mistake was when I forgot how to calculate the area of a triangle or something else, probably I got the width or the height wrong. Anyways, on the last part of the test, once I saw the last question, I almost did not want to even try solving it, and I intended to leave it blank, sacrificing the 8 points for the safe 2 points. After that, I went back to the beginning and checked over my answers, and luckily, all of them I got right. When I was done that, I had about 10 minutes left, and I said to myself, why not? By the way, what else could I do to pass this time? So once I took a closer look at the question,  I thought it wasn’t that hard, and I just needed time to solve it. The question was “how many positive integers less than 10000 are the product of 3 primes, 2 of which are a reversal pair(reversal meaning two different integers when the number is reversed.) I began by just listing out all of the possible prime numbers that could be a reversal and when multiplied together, is less than 5000(because smallest third prime is 2). Then, I just checked those numbers with the third prime, and added the results, and got my answer! I learned that just with trying and sticking to problems, I will most likely solve it, even though it may look very hard at first. In fact, I think that it applies to all the other aspects and problems of life, not just math contests. 
4/6/15
        The weekends are a very stressful part of life for me. Although many people say that they like the weekends more than the weekdays because of the stress-relief and freedom and happiness it provides, I think that, because of my very mean and very strict dad, the weekdays are more of a relief to me than the weekends. During the breaks and holidays, my dad would inevitably force me to do homework, such as math or writing this journal or writing an essay. However, in school, I have less stress because they know when to stop pushing a child as young as myself, but my dad does not know when to stop his constant push. In addition, in school, we always get more breaks and fresh air than at home. During the weekend, I would stay inside my room and occasionally go outside to ask my father something, such as what do I do next or how to do a really hard math problem that I cannot solve within an amount of time. 
        I also went playing tennis with my dad and my brother today during the evening. My brother was invited to play with his friend, Aish, in the morning, around 9:30 ante meridiem. Therefore, my brother had to quickly get his items and clothes before he went outside and biked to the tennis park using my bike. My father and mother encouraged me to go with him, but I felt very uncomfortable because my brother’s friend, Aish Nguyen, or so my brother told me, really hated me. However, I went in the evening, and I met him there. We played a good round of tennis together before he had to leave. During the match, me and my father was a team, and my brother and Aish Nguyen was a team. During the first two games, which consists of one person serving and the receiving team alternating between the players, me and my dad beated them 2 to 0. However, my brother’s friend, Aish Nguyen, is very good at serving, so me and my dad lost those rounds, which concluded to be 3-2. 
3/23/15
Today is the first day back from spring break, which lasts for about 2 weeks. At first, I thought that it was going to be all fun and interesting, and telling friends about our fun trips during spring break time. However, it was as if spring break had not even existed, the teacher mentioned very little about the spring break, but then, he moved right into the normal schedule that we have everyday in the middle of every term:Math, then Science, then band, and then finally, goal setting. Goal setting was my least favorite part of the day because it is so pointless to me and my learning. It is also not fun because I have to think a lot about my goals and make it be within the scope of our term or our current period of learning. Well, at least my favorite course, which is math, is in the day too. I was very good at math even at an early age, and I developed that talent into a skill I have right now. In our math period today, we had to do a pre assessment to see how we are doing on the skills that we are going to learn in the next term. This differs from the normal pre test on the skills that we already learned because now, they are testing us on the skills that we haven’t learned yet. I thought that this was an interesting concept because then, they are knowing ahead of time to change their teaching schedule. I thought that the pre test was not very hard because I have already learned those basic geometry concepts before, so I had no problem of proving my knowledge to the teacher. The hardest part that I found in the math test was drawing out the triangles and the axis in the graph paper because my drawing skills were terrible and I did not have a ruler with me to guide my lines.
3/22/15
Normally in Sunday, I would go to GDPT, but I was not going to go to GDPT today because they were having the spring break, just like Vancouver School Board. I do not like going and participating in GDPT events as they are a bit boring and the people there are very peculiar, in my opinion. I did not have much friends there, so that was partly the reason why I do not like going to GDPT’s daily meetings and events. 
However, I do like the camping trips that GDPT hosts annually or sometimes, when we are lucky, the GDPT organizes 2 camping trips per year. There are two types of camps that they hold, the first one is a training camp, and the second one is the fun camp, where everything is more relaxed and I don’t have to be alert for the whistle call every so often. My favorite and everyone in the group’s favorite is the fun camp because we don’t have to learn new things-we just have to play and enjoy the camp. The training camp, however, is much more intense. The main leader assigned sub leaders to a team. Everyone is forced to listen to the main leader’s whistle blow and rush to him or her as fast as possible and form lines that are determined by individual teams and leaders. The leader is at the front, the co-leader or helper is at the back, and the members is in the middle. The last team to be there and successfully form a line loses a set amount of points, usually 5 or 10, determined by the main leader. The camp also has tests for promotion to the next learning level in Buddhist studies, and everyone is competing to be the top in classes.




3/20/15
        When my dad was revising my essay, he made several points about my example about him moving to Canada not good enough for the scope of the essay. I argued back several times, and although I was clearly winning the arguments, asking my dad questions that are hard to answer with the current situation. However, my dad used his authority on me, and I was forced to write another example that demonstrates or supports the fact that true courage requires us to put something at risk, such as our relationship or our life. I decided to make my example about the courage of the Vietnamese boat people. Those were people who had wanted to move to other better countries. They wanted to move as the current status of Vietnam was not very good-many people are poor, there are many deaths, and the economy is corrupting. Many of the boat people did not successfully make it to land. Even the successful ones that did not die of the sea or the nature or pirates were then often rejected by government officials who did not like the poor people on their land. I could understand why they did not want those poor, dirty, uneducated people on their land because then, it would cost them more money to provide services for those people as opposed to normal people because they don’t need as much services to support them. Finally, when I was done writing and editing my example about the boat people and their courageous actions, I finally took a rest and during that rest, I programmed my role playing game. In that game, you try to shoot your way through enemies and get past levels. I have already gotten the most basic parts of the game done, such as the shooting mechanic and the gravity mechanic. I have to admit, the shooting was the hardest part I have encountered so far as I had not done it before in my earlier games. I think the hardest part of the whole project would be to make the different levels and special effects, since a game with no upgrades and just one type of enemy is very boring in my standard. 
3/19/15
Today, I woke up on my very scary dream. My dreams were always scary, but they also had some distortion to it that helped a lot in differentiating between my nightmare or scary dream from the real world.  My dream was about when me and my brother and my mom were eating lunch, but then somebody started knocking on the door. Although during my dream, I did not know anything about the fact that something bad was going to knock on our door, I automatically knew that when I heard a rhythmic knocking sound on our wooden door. So I started to look through the peephole, and I saw an eye staring at me. Sometimes, dreams can be weird, and sometimes, they can be really weird. Well, that was one of the weirdest parts of my dream when I reflected back on it now, but when I was in the dream and my conscious was inactive and my subconscious was blazing full of life, I felt that it was normal. I tried to close the door, but the person or the group outside used a hacking tool, so they broke in, and threw something, and then left. When they left, I saw that the “something”, or thing, that they threw was nothing dangerous at all, it was just normal candy. As you can see, it was very weird, but in the dream, I did not feel any surprise at all, and then, I started eating the candy. My mom then returned to her cooking business as if nothing had happened. I woke up, not feeling sweaty or scared, unlike many times in the past where I have woken up after a nightmare, I just woke up normally, without the sweat covering my face. Then, I just climbed out of my bed and did the normal morning routines like washing my face, stretching my hips and legs and body, and then washing my mouth, then eat breakfast, and finally, study. 
Doing essay now…







3/18/15
        Today was another yet normal day, because there were no events to change that “normal” into a “special” day. However, my daily tasks/homeworks did change because I got the CD installed to my USB. I finally figured out why my dad was so in a rush trying to make me finish the one SAT per day: it was because my dad had to return the book fast, so he needed me to finish the book faster. However, since I got all the practice tests on my USB already, he can just return the book and it can sit safely on the computer while my dad satisfies the deadline. To be honest with you, I do not actually like the computer version because it was too bothersome, having to click the answers and then the back or forward button to move to the next question in the test. Although this may seem like a small amount of time, maybe milliseconds or even seconds, this adds up to the total overall time that I have spent clicking.
3/17/15
        I finished my essay from the Royal Commonwealth Society essay contest(I will just call it RCS essay contest for short), and then, I did my normal one sat per day. The RCS essay contest took quite a long time because I had to make it good to win the gold prize on the contest and I did not want to waste all of my efforts into not winning any prize at all except for the participation certificate. I was not an avid supporter of having participation certificates because it proves nothing of one student’s effort to finish/ polish the essay or anything in a contest. In my opinion, it almost seems worthless because there are so many participation certificates and they just don’t prove the efforts that a student or someone put into it, because almost all competitions provide participation certificates to compensate for the loss. Since I finished all of my tests from the normal book, I phoned my dad, and used the cd to do more practice tests. I did not like the cd version as much as the normal old paper and pen version because it takes very long to move the mouse from the answer area to the submit button. Although the time is very short, it adds up to a tremendous amount of time considering there are 67 questions in the critical reading section(CR), 54 questions in the math section, and 49 questions in the writing section. After that, I transitioned swiftly into programming my next program. I decided that it would be a game that I am programming, because I have no idea what apps to do other than games. Then, I decided that it would be a platformer game, like a moving game with gravity on a platform, but again, I decided that I would do it later because it was too hard, with all the gravity velocities and moving and enemies. Therefore, I decided to do a wave game, where the player moves around, trying to dodge the different “rays”.
3/14/15
        On sunday. my brother won the first place contest in the Ganga River essay contest, governed by IC-Impacts (India-Canada Impacts), and sponsored by the Asian Pacific Foundation. It was very fun there, with lots of people attending, however, I did not understand some of the content that they presented, such as something about long-DNA and short-Dna. During the long dna and short dna presentation, I also remembered my questions that was “what did DNA really stand for”. Unfortunately, I did not have a chance to search Wikipedia or other websites, but I mainly prefer wikipedia for its intuitive use, my question. It happens almost everytime, that I have a very interesting question, then I forget what it is, and when I do remember again, either right after or a long time after, I don’t have the available resources, such as a phone and internet, a computer and internet, or some device to access information, to research my question. So, I better do that now before I forget to search up my question on google or/and forget my question completely. After we walked home from the event, I and my brother claimed our notebooks and pens, and then we went back to studying. After I was finished all of my essays and the normal SAT that I had to do everyday, I went to programming. Programming have been a very fun and entertaining hobby for me because of the things that I can achieve with it that I cannot with other hobbies. I got my inspiration to program from a documentary about the Reddit co-founder, who programmed his way all the way through his life and his mind set on one thing:information should be free.
3/13/15
        Today, I did not have to do the ordinary SAT that I had to do everyday, but I had to finish two SAT essays and one journal. The two topics that I chose to guide my two SAT essays were “are people capable of finding happiness or do they always look ahead of them.” and “is skill the result of motivation or talent, and which is more?”. Although there were many other topics that were available for me to choose, I chose those two topics because they were the easiest to write and I did not understand some of the other SAT topics. For the first topic, I said that being happy with what I already have is better than always looking for new things because then our life is simple, and we can enhance our happiness, instead of looking for new things, that only fuel our happy emotion for only a short while. One thing I also said was the definition of happiness. I thought it was interesting how many people think of happiness as the absence of pain, happiness is not a feeling. This is also the same with cold and hot, where cold is the absence of energy, which is hot. Hot is an energy, but cold is not. For the second topic, I said that without motivation, the talent would be worthless. The talent can only turn into something useful if there is a motivation, a dream, to nurture the talent and let it grow. After I finished those two essays, I looked outside, and sadly, it was raining heavily. That meant I cannot play tennis with my dad or my brother today. However, it was fine because I could do other stuff, such as programming or reading. It also meant my dad would make me do more homework and fix up my other essays because I had extra time, in which I only had to rest.
3/12/15
        Today was yet another boring day. I had to do the normal 1 sat practice test, one journal entry (it must consist of at least 300 words), and one 25 minute essay(which also has to consist of at least 300 words). Although the latter one, the essay, is limited to 25 minutes in the real SAT test, my dad said that I could extend the time to whenever I like, because I am not taking the official test, and it is a learning opportunity for me, not a testing opportunity. I used this advantage and used a lot of time for my essays, so it can be good and meaningful. . My dad kept saying that I forgot how to write a persuasive essay, but I knew how. It just was that my ideas were not perfect or I used the wrong grammar or my sentence structure was not great. The journal is what I am writing now. I tried to convince my dad that the journal did not need to be grammatically correct or be pleasing to read, it is a journal, not an essay. The fun part comes in the afternoon, where I play tennis with my brother. Unlike many other times, this session lasted a long time and I was not very tired after returning. Tennis was always my favorite part of the day because it differentiated from the tired, boring, dull work of SAT and writing to the fun and active tennis. However, as all things, the tennis session came to an end, and we biked home using a new way. After that, we ate dinner, and then I wrote this journal, like I am doing right now. I am eagerly waiting for the next events in the day to show up, as I finish writing... 
3/11/15
        Yesterday was a very boisterous day. Once I had finished all of my homework, I set out to the tennis court with dad. Today was a very sunny day, so I thought that this would be the perfect time for tennis. Then, halfway during the ride, dad was stuck in a phone call. Great. I overheard bits of information, but then, I immediately knew that this tennis session was going to be short, because someone was visiting our house. However, I was not very sad, because that meant I did not have to complete some of my left over homework, and I would get to play with my friends from the other family. Then, we biked home, and then I waited for my friends to come. After they had come for a while, my dad said that we were going for a walk in the nature. I was not completely fascinated as I had taken the walk many times before in the morning. Still, I followed my dad’s decision, and we went outside. We stopped near a playground so I and my friends could play. We played for a while, but we later got bored and although I was not sure if my friends are hungry (I think so, but to be safe, I’m not sure), so I rushed home. There, I ate the curry that my mom cooked. Lots of people say it was good, but although I think that they really think it was good, they were just doing it for politeness.Then, we went outside to the barbeque station beside the apartment that we live in. Unfortunately, as I and my brother went inside to look for the frisbee, and once we found it and rushed outside, most of the meat was gone, and we can only eat some of it. 
3/10/15
I had to do one SAT practice test because it was the break, and there was less homework and no school time. I loathe the SAT because it is very hard and I don’t think it is beneficial to my learning because the level of reading and mathematics is too high for me to comprehend for the long term. However, due to the pressure that my dad put, I had to finish the SAT. After I finished that, I went on and read a book. The book was called “And the Mountains Echoed”, and it reflected the life of Abdullah and his father, Souboru. This book was written by Khaled Hosseini. However, I got bored after a half hour, and then I started to eat the sushi that my mom had packed. They were going with their friends to a concert at Richmond. However, the kids did not come because either some of them were participating in the concert itself, or they just stayed home. Then, I started to program in Java. I was stuck in an annoying bug and it just stopped me, however, I overcame that annoying bug and then I moved on to programming other stuff such as games or applications. However, I suddenly got bored of that too, so I began to read another book, The Death Cure. I have read this book before, but I just wanted to read it again. Then, it was time to sleep. I put away all my stuff, and then brush my tooth, and then got tucked into my bed. However, I forgot that my cover was in the other room, or my parent’s room. So, I moved over to that room, picked up my stuff, and headed back, all ready to end the day.
3/9/15
        Spring break is finally here! Yay! Today was the last day of school before spring break, and since I had so little homework to do today, it was a very fun and relaxing day. The best part of the day was when I was playing badminton with my friends. It was very fun to beat everybody when the good people were not there. After that, I went into my normal classes, and the day was revolved around a “celebration of learning”, where everyone shared what they had learned using various methods, some used a Power Point, some used a prezi (I don’t think prezi is a good presentation tool), some used posters, and some wrote essays, like me. I chose the essay to represent my learning of this term because I did not have to present my findings orally, and I could just sit back and relax while other people read my essay. While they spent time reading my essay, I went around and looked for interesting posters or presentations. My favorite one was the one with the model and a booklet. The model was a fantastic way to represent the learning because it supported the otherwise boring essay or booklet. Next was lunch. I was not particularly fond with the lunch that my mom packed me because soy sauce spilled everywhere on the plastic bag (lucky I even have a plastic bag), and I had to carefully maneuver my hands so that it does not touch the smelly soy sauce on the sides of the plastic bag. Then, we had chemistry, in which we tried several combinations of sodium bicarbonate, bromothymol blue, and calcium cloride, all of them produced fascinating results, such as heating up and rapidly cooling down, one that produced lots of gas, but did not have any visual changes, and one that filled the bottle up as well as changing to a yellow colour and bubbling like crazy.  
3/8/15
        Today was a very big and exciting day for me because it is the day that I am going to receive my report card! This report is very important to me because it determines many aspects of my life. It also goes on the official document. Anyways, back to the beginning. In the morning, I fought with my brother over the badminton racket for who gets to play. I won. I biked to school, and then headed in. First, there was a quick write, where I had to write as much as I can in 3 minute intervals. I did not like it because it was very boring and I sometimes had the writer’s block. Then, there was recess. After that, we had a word period of finishing the presentation, and I only had to finish up a bit. Then, I went to help with the letter to parents explaining the different letter grades and what they mean. There was a heated debate on whether this style is better or the traditional way, with A, B, C, and F is better. Then, there was lunch, which was rice with coconut and meat. After lunch, I grew more and more anxious about the report card. There was band. We learned and improved many of our songs that we are going to play for the whole school on April 1. After band, there was advisory. In advisory, I had my report card, which was not bad. Then, I played with badminton. Badminton was quite easy because all of the good people were gone, and I beated everyone except a few one or two. Then I went home. Went back to my normal studying and resting schedules. After tomorrow, there would be no more school for the next two weeks! Yay!






28/03/14


 I did my homework that my dad gave me on a book. The book was “Editor-proof your writing.” The fun parts starts in the evening, where I went to Killarney CC to play badminton. Biking was the only effective way to get there even though it was raining. Walking would be too slow and I would not have much time to play badminton. When I was at the community center, I paid 2 dollars to get my membership renewed. I did not thought it would be that cheap. The membership gives people access and discounts to various programs. However, I think that the cost is just for renewing memberships, but creating a new membership costs more money. I quickly ran into the gym, where the badminton drop-in was. I showed them my membership, and they asked me that would I like one of them to play with me. I said yes because I had no one else to play with. I had sweated after I played badminton with the volunteers. I then biked home when the badminton drop-in was finished. On the way, I met my brother, who took my racquet and change to the CC. He played badminton too, on the teens schedule.




20/03/14


Yesterday was a very boring day. First, I did my normal routines: wake up, go to the washroom, and do homework. Today was IXL day, which means that I have to do 20 IXL!! In Winter Break, I just had to do 12 IXL, and that is it. However, in Spring Break, I have to do 20! If you do not know what IXL is, it is a math learning website. It features skills from Junior Kindergarten all the way to Grade 11. Anyways, the afternoon is the fun part. When I was done all of my homework, I went to the tennis court to play badminton with my brother while we wait for my dad to drop off the tennis rackets. We decided to play badminton in order to pass time. However, since it was very windy at the tennis court, badminton was an ineffective way to pass time. Therefore, I decided to go into the Killarney CC and play foosball with my brother. He, of course, won. I have never beaten him in foosball, except for once or twice, where I was lucky. Finally, my dad dropped off the tennis rackets. I felt delighted at the sight of the racket because I would much prefer tennis over badminton in the windy weather. At the beginning, it was very fun. However, in the end, we were both very tired and bored at the same time.
16/02/2014


Today was a big day for me because I was going to the chess tournament. The tournament is a qualifier for a next tournament, and you can qualify for the next tournament  by winning at least two games and drawing one game. When I heard something, I woke up. I found out that I needed to go to the bathroom, so I quickly went. I ate breakfast, still feeling excited about the chess tournament. After I ate breakfast and got changed and brushed my teeth, I headed outside to pass time. Finally, my family went into the car and drove to the city of Richmond where the tournament was. I realized that we were a little late because the first round of the tournament starts at 10:00, but we needed to arrive earlier to fill out some forms. They finally allowed me inside the tournament hall, and I quickly went to the arbiter to see who my opponent was. I realized he was a boy. I played a quick but formal game with him and I won! However, on the second and third round, I lost to people who are higher and lower rated than me. I decided to play more aggressively, but I drew the fourth one. Luckily, on the fifth and final round, I won! I waited for my brother to finish, then, I went in Co Trang’s car to get to the skytrain station. I and my brother boarded a skytrain heading for Waterfront, and waited for the train to reach Oakridge Station. After I got off, I and my brother walked to another bus stop, where it would take us near our house. I finally walked the rest of the way home. 


08/02/2014


i woke up in my parent’s bedroom. I tried to sleep because I thought that it was very early in the morning, probably six of the clock. Then, once i thought that i could not sleep anymore, I just laid there, doing nothing. After that, I did not know of what i could do to help myself, so I went up into my parent’s bed. I thought that mom was sleeping, so i tried not to disturb her, but she realized that I was there, so she said that I could come up. I thought that it was going to be very hot in there, however, it was not hot at all! Instead, i felt a little cold, so I pulled up the covers, or blankets, so that it could cover my whole body. After a very long time, I finally urged myself to go out of the bed. I read the book that i bought at the University bookstore. The book was about Essays and Term Papers. I thought that the book was really useful since it contained all of the information I need for the upcoming essay. However, i need to know all of the different types of essays.


05/02/2014


I woke up feeling normal. Although I wanted to sleep more, I could not because my dad is going to wake me up sooner or later, and I have to wake up early so that I could get to school on time. Then, when I finished eating my breakfast, I headed into the car so that I could get to my school. Once I got to school, I went into my class. I was surprised that we did not have any physical education session today, but I did not mind that much. After school, I did some homework, then I walked to the company that my dad works in. I waited for a few moments, then climbed onto the car. I got excited as soon as my dad stopped his car at the Sylvan Center. I did not know what to expect, and this was my first time. I went to the library to go to the washroom, then ran over to the Sylvan Center because I thought that I was a little late. Then, the teacher introduced herself, and gave me a book and showed me the exercises she wanted me to do. After that, i had to write a summary about what I read, which is The Writing Process. Then, she asked me to make a web of a topic that I will write next session.




04/02/2014


I woke up from the warnings of my brother. Then, I ran around the block that the house I live in is located. Next, I got to school, and automatically headed towards the library as if something had controlled my brain. After realizing that there was no Ranger’s Apprentice book 9, I just sat in the library. Finally, the bell rang. In the afternoon, I and my class walked to Osborne Gym to play badminton. I have waited all day long for this very moment, and it finally came. However, the walk to Osborne Gym was not very fun. I had to carry my backpacks and coats with me, which added to the extra weight. Anyways, once I got to the gym, the badminton coaches there gave me and my class a brief introduction about what they are and how they are going to teach us badminton. After an hour or so of hard training exercises, there was finally the tournament! I got ready, landed a few practice shots, and played in the tournament. It was like I expected: short. I thought that was because we did not have much time left. Then, my brother came to pick me up and we headed towards the bookstore at UBC.






12/17/13
Yesterday was the first weekday in this week, and also a school day. At my school, I did many fun stuff, such as art, well it is not that fun, but at least it is better than doing nothing. For the art, I drew on a giant piece of paper, taped to my desk, which was ridiculous. At first, I thought it was a joke by my teacher, taping the art into my desk. He said it was an art contest, and to win, you have to draw a winter scene, and the judges vote for their favorite. At first, I thought that it was really easy, but then it got harder and harder the more time I spent on making it perfect. Also, my class had written a writing pretest. 


12/20/13


Today, it was snowing very badly at first at 8:00 in the morning,  but it tapered off in the
evening, and ended with just a bit of snow, more than enough to feel the
crunchiness of it under your boots. I had thought that the snow was only a bit


deep before it stopped snowing, like the one that happened recently. However, the snow was awfully thick.
Even though I wore boots, the snow sneaked into my shoe like crazy. There was
so much water and snow in my boots that when I walked, I could hear them sloshing
around my feet like crazy. After recess, I expected that our class continued on the art that we did before recess, printmaking. Making prints was really fun, it is like copying someone‘s art, while making your own art.


19/12/2013


It was almost winter break! I could feel the excitement rushing through my spine. On thursday, we usually had gym, but not anymore because it was almost winter break, and the school needed to set up for the concert tonight at 6:00. When we went to the computer lab, I brought my letter to one of the project chef donors, to retype it because we had written it wrong. It was wrong because I and my partner made the mistake of writing that they had helped us cook, but they were only the donors. I worked on my picture project, a project where you have to take a picture and edit it to make it look better, however, the file format was .pdn - paint.net - and I wanted to change it to a JPEG even though I could still work with that.   




21/12/2013




Today, it was the first day of winter, and the first day of the winter break at my school. In the morning, I slept lazily, but the temptation for me to read my book was so strong, I decided to get out of bed and start reading my book. The book was very interesting, kind of like a science fiction, where airships replaced airplanes, and a new type of gas “ hydrium” was used to make the airship float. Also, the gas is very light, lighter than hydrogen and way lighter than helium. Matt Cruse, the main character, is on a journey to salvage an ancient ship that had been believed to carry gold for hundreds of years. Anyways, when I started playing chess with my uncle at philadelphia, I started to make blunders and mistakes, including the one where he got my queen for free! I could tell that he improved a ton on chess, and started to get new interest in it. I lost one more game, feeling disappointed. After dinner, I quickly got up stairs and started reading my book once again today. I reached the most exciting part when my mom asked me to clean my clothes wardrobe. 




23/12/13


Today was a boring day, doing my homework. I would love to read books, but there were none of them that seems interesting to me, and the ones that seem interesting to me is not at my house or is not yet released, like the Blood of Olympus. After a while, I decided to play chess with my uncle on facebook, only to find that he was not on facebook. Then, I decided to write my report about news that I find on CBC or any other websites. After five minutes of finding on CBC, I gave up and started searching for what I wanted to hear about, and search it up. Then, the thought of the sinking of the Costa Concordia came to my mind, and I started writing about it. When I was taking the notes, I knew many things about the sinking of the ship that I did not know before. I also knew this painstakingly, but effective, method of hauling a shi[ upright from its sinking position, in which it was tilted to the left a bit. 






21/12/2013


Today was the second day of Winter Break, a break that lasts for 2 weeks long. Today, I thought that it was already 10:00 when I woke up. However, I figured that it was only 8:00, which was pretty early. Then, I got to the computer and started looking for news reports that I might be interested in writing. After a while, I could not find any good news reports, so I started looking for this web site called news4youth, where it includes all of the news that kids like me should hear, and quickly found one. It was about increased tourists in arctic because it is melting, which was a very bad thing to hear about. I also, found out that tankers are going through the arctic because it is melting very quickly. 


25/12/2013


Today was the first day that I had snowboarded for this winter season. In the past, I usually think of snowboarding as hard to learn the basics; however the new snowboard destroyed that thought. First, I thought that I needed a lot of time to review my skills and instincts, however, it was not like I thought, I quickly reviewed all of my skills, and learned some new skills, on my first time down a short hill, even  though I fell a couple of times. I figured out that the new snowboard was way easier for beginners like me to stop oneself from going down to fast. My old board was so hard to turn and stop, I had to fall down every time I wanted to stop myself. Fortunately, my dad bought me a new snowboard to compensate for the old one. However, on my first try, it was not very good. When I was down the hill, I was struggling to open my binders, and I almost cried when my dad came over to help me. He too, was struggling to open my binders.
12/17/2013
Yesterday, the first time I opened my eyes, I quickly went down to check if Santa gave me a present. Unfortunately, I did not get the present I had wanted for Christmas, however, I got a decent present, enough for me to buy something I wanted. Guess what I got, Santa gave me a fifty dollars gift card. I thought that it was a present from my parents, and I have several witnesses to prove it. First, it looked exactly like my mom’s handwriting, well not exactly because she did not want me to figure out that it was she. Second, she spelled Santa Claus wrong, which was kind of funny, and third, I put it on the chimney on the twenty fifth, not the twenty fourth, so I kind of think that my mom gave it to me. Then, after lunch, my family and I went to Metropolis to buy some books from Chapters and use our gift cards. At first, I was interested in looking around, but it got very boring after an hour. I had nothing to do. Then, I went to the chess section and read a few books about chess, but it was also boring, since some of those were too complicated for me. Then, I found my brother, reading one of the chess books that he had borrowed. He looked so focused. Finally, my mom picked us up, and we headed to the restaurant to eat. It was a Japanese restaurant, and my stomach was so full, I almost fell asleep.


29/12/2013


Today, it was a very fine day. In the morning, I worked on my news summary, IXL, journal, and my topics writing. Well, I guess that you do not want to hear about what I did at that part, because it is pretty boring and will  




30/12/13


Today was a fine, and boring day, not from work, but from waiting at London Drugs for the doctor. You know that feeling right, waiting while you are being sick. Not only that I had to wait for the doctor, but I have to wait for the medicine for forty minutes to get home, writing this. Well, I guess I do not have anything to tell you right now, so I will continue writing after I went to Stanley Park this evening. 




12/31/13


Today was a very boring day. However, my dad said that we are going to go to the Robson Square, a place that I had been wishing I could go to anytime, this evening. This morning, I worked on my IXL, journal writing, news summary, and topics. It is so boooring! I am also hungry, and that makes a perfect combination, boringness and hungriness. I have nothing to tell you right now, so maybe I will tell my first impressions after I get home from Robson Square.






1/2/2014


Today was a very fun day; I got to go to Science World! Going to Science World have always been part of my “to-go” place. When I first came to Canada, I heard that Science World was a very fun place, so I dreamed of going there for a very long time until I was in grade 2. My teacher planned a class field trip to Science World, and I got so excited that I might start to get crazy. After a long wait, the day I had been looking forward to came. In the morning, I reminded myself that we are going to Science World today, and there was nothing to worry about, but something in my mind told me that I should worry. When I went to Science World, the first exhibit was as cool as I thought it would be, and all the other shows and exhibits were cool too. After that experience, I dreamed of going to Science World again, and I got to go finally! The place was the same, but I could see that Science World added some new games and exhibits. It was said when it was near the closing hour, and we went home.




1/3/2014


Today was a very boring day. I got to go nowhere, and I had to do all my homework, which includes IXL, topics writing, news summary, and this journal. I do not think that I have any large events to tell you right now. 


1/5/2014
Today was a super boring day. I thought my head would explode from the boringness of it. However, after lunch, I heard a loud sound, like a tough dish falling to the ground. I suspected that it was my dad, because my mom was very careful with things, and she have more experience being in the kitchen than anyone else in the family. The food that my mom cooked was fine, but it contained some of the foods that I hate, such as fish. I think that was all so far, and I do not think that I have anything that might be fun to tell you right now. I am back, and I finally got to rest. I played chess and did tactics puzzles. Normally, the tactics were at my brother’s level, which was higher than mine. What I did yesterday was I did a bunch of puzzles wrong intentionally to get the rating down so that I can practice too. After what seemed like forever, I finally got the rating to my level, and I practiced it. 


1/6/2014


Today was a different day from the rest. While I was sleeping on my cozy bed and dreaming, my brother was shouting “ WAKE UP!!!”. Well, when I was dreaming, I heard something moving, so I opened my eyes. The moving thing looked like my mom, and she was sitting on my brother’s bed. I did not know why. Then, I heard, “WAKE UP!” I wondered why my brother was shouting that, when mom was in front of him. I realized that was not my mom, it was my brother sitting on his bed! It was seven of the clock after all. Then, I hopped on to the car and went to school. School was the same, except for a few “ How’s your break” from a few people. Also, the school hired a professional dance teacher, who had just finished teaching dance in India before he moved here. The dancing was remarkably fun, with awesome songs and lyrics.




1/8/2014


When I woke up today, all I could think of was how mad my brother had been during the night. While the alarm was ringing, I was not paying any attention because I was being  too focused on my dream, but it changed when I forced myself to wake up and hit the button on the phone, since that stops the alarm from ringing. So I got changed, ate breakfast, got in dad’s car, and got to school. After a few weeks of being away from school, staying at school is kind of fun and interesting. Quickly, I looked on today’s schedule, and I was surprised that we had no gym today, since we go to gym on Wednesdays and Thursdays. After I had put down my backpack and everything else, I headed over to my desk and read the book that I just brought from the library. It was silverwing. At lunch, I noticed that the food was one of my favorite. I did not want to waste any time, so I quickly ate my lunch and ate the food from the school.


1/10/2014


Today was the last day of school for this week. Everyday, I always go to the library first thing when I get to school. So today, I was going to take out the next book in the Silverwing saga. However, the librarian stopped me and said that he needed to fix the book before I could take it out, which filled me with disappointment. Today, I went into class and waited for the teacher to start. The first thing that I, or my class, did was math. The teacher just gave us the pages and we had to do them before the due date. Then, there was the dance. The dance leader is Lee, which I thought he was Chinese, because of the name. My teacher gave the class a bit of a summary about what is going to happen: Lee teaches us dance. I was surprised to hear and realize that he was a professional dance teacher. His attitude is really good, and he is fun to hear too. On the first session, I thought that he was just going to dance, and the students have to watch and imitate him. However, I realized that it was just the warm-up. 




1/11/2014


Today was just like any day in Winter Break, boring and boring. Today, I got back to my normal schedule in Winter Break: IXL, cbc news summary, writing, and journal. Luckily, this is the last bit of homework that I have to do for today. For the cbc news summary, I did the soaring demand for flu shots and vaccine. And for the writing topics, I did “ Are we dependent on technology nowadays”. Then, I went to Sylvan, waited for my dad and mom to finish, and went home. 


1/13/2014


Today, I went to Sylvan Learning Center after school for the placement test. At first, I thought they would do the same kind of test that they did with Kumon, but they did multiple, or several tests.  I thought they would only test me on writing, but it came as a surprise to me that not only were there a writing test, but there were also some other tests, such as vocabulary, grammar, and listening test.  I thought the tests were harder than what I would do in school, but that changed when I realized that in school, we were doing a different thing. 


Today, was a very boring day. It was the same day as the others, wake up early, eat breakfast, and go to school. Today, we had gym. We played handball in gym. At first, I did not know that hand ball was so fun, but now that I have played it, it seems amazingly attractive, and fun as well. After that there was computers. That is my favorite part of Thursdays. After school, I went to my brother’s chess training school to eat, which was chicken.
 
18/1/2014


Today seems as if it was winter break all over again. I have to wake up, eat breakfast, and then study. Then, I ate lunch. Since my mom and my dad are going to this course, I and my brother ate instant noodles. I do not think I have anything to tell you right now, bye. 


19/01/2014


Today, was a very fun day. I go to go snowboarding on Mount Seymour. I had waited for this very day for  a very long time, and there it is. Even though I went snowboarding four times including today in this winter season, the first three were not very successful. That was because most of the lifts and runs were not open. I do not know why they did not open all of those lifts, but I think that it was because they did not had enough snow. Anyways, I went to the lodge chairlift, which I like to call the medium chairlift, first when I went to Seymour. After a few runs, I was kind of bored of the lodge chairlift, so I went to the Mystery Peak Express. At first glance, it looks like a station, but once you get closer, you notice that there are no operators in the house, or upper part of the lift. Anyways, I got so excited when I reached the top of the mountain that I could not wait to go down. And just to let you know, I went with my dad. Even though I said that I could not wait to go down the mountain, I kind of got scared when I saw how steep the first part is. However, I said to myself that I can just go perpendicular to the direction down the mountain. After I got down the first part, it was much smoother, and less steeper. Then, I got to the part where it separates the terrain park and the rest of the way down the mountain. I decided that going down the former area was much more dangerous, and I was not ready for that yet, so I went on the other way. Also, my brother struck four accidents today, the first accident that happened was my brother fell down on his face and it made his cheek bleed very badly. Second of all, he fell down the slope even though there was string and poles holding blockading him. Third of all, he crashed into me. And fourth of all, he got beaten up by his father because he lied that he did his homework. 


1/22/2014


Today was a very normal day, I did my routine thing in the morning, such as wake up, brush my teeth, get changed, go down the stairs, and eat breakfast. Today, we did not have a normal breakfast, like bread and jam. My mom made bread with bacon, this thing that I do not know how to spell or know in English, and vegetables. The rest of the day at school went on smoothly, and I went home on the car with my dad, brother, and me. 


24/01/2014


Today is a very normal day, I did my daily routine without any disruptions that would make the day not normal. I woke up, brushed my teeth, got changed, go down the stairs, and ate whatever my mom made for breakfast. Today, it was bread and jam again, and we eat bread and jam most of the time. I finally went on dad’s car and travelled all the way to UBC, where my elementary school is. The day went on smoothly, and it was pretty normal.


25/01/2014




Today was a very normal day, I woke up, brushed my teeth, and studied. today, I have to do 12 IXL math, three writings, two of which requires at least four hundred words. The other writing that I have to do, since I hate to do three, and I only mentioned two, is this, or what I like to call journal writing. then, we went to run around the Killarney park. It was tiring, but eventually, we got to go to the library. Once I got to the library, I looked for the book that I wanted and headed home. 


26/01/2014


Today was a very big day for me, because of the chess tournament. In the morning, I woke up beside my brother, who was kind of sleeping. then, after I woke up, my dad told me and my brother to run laps around our block. Yesterday, I thought I would not have to run laps again, but I was wrong. He said that I have to run four laps around our block, and we have to do it in fifteen minutes. However, my dad said that my brother have to run five laps, because he is older than me. finally, it was time for us to go to the tournament. Once I got to the waiting/meeting area, I waited for my name to be called and went upstairs to wait again for the next team to come up. My team was the Boxing Kangaroos, and we were first in the tournament. I was so excited at that time. What I got was a trophy, but it was made out of plastic, not metal. Then, me and my brother went to the bus stop and went home.




27/01/2014


Today was a very boring day. I did my daily homework. I slept until I could not sleep any more, because my brother had disturbed me by kissing and hugging me. I was so mad at him, but I held my anger for I feared that he would disturb me again. Then, after many attempts of sleeping, I went down the stairs to my mom. I saw her making lunch. I waited for her to say something, and she said eat my breakfast. The breakfast for today was croissants and milk. Today , I would be staying at home because my school has a break. I  felt a bit scared, but I reminded myself that there is no need to be scared. I do not think that I have anything to tell you right now, so bye. 


28/01/2014


Today was a very normal day for me, and I think that it is normal for everybody else too. In the morning, I thought that I would hear my brother waking up early to run around the block that we are living on.However, to my surprise, my brother woke up as silently as if he had been a spy. I slept on and on until I realized that my brother was preparing to run, because I heard noises. After a moment, I felt that I should wake up too. Once I got dressed up, I went to my parents’ door and knocked, as I did most of the mornings. After a silent moment, the lock on the door opened and I rushed in and lay down beside my mother. Finally, she urged me to get up and have a breakfast, since me, my brother, and my dad were normally late for the scheduled time we set, which is 7:45. The rest of the day went as normally as ever. Finally, after school, I am sitting here typing this.

29/01/2014




Today was a very normal day. My dad wanted me to run early in the morning with my brother to get my physical education mark up. Normally, I would wake up at around 7:00, and get changed, brush my teeth, and do all of that stuff. However, as a result of the change in the routine, I now have to wake up at 6:30, and run for about thirty minutes. Luckily, for today, it rained, so I can keep sleeping instead of running. Anyways, after I got to my school, I went to the library, disappointed that the library was not open yet. So what I did was I sat down and read my book, or the librarian’s book. The rest of the day was fine but the run. 


01/31/2014


The whole day was pretty normal except for the morning. I expected my brother to wake me up at 6:30 and force me to run laps around our block. However, I suspected that today was a professional development day for David’s school, University Hill Secondary. I found out that I woke up pretty late, well, it was very late in relative to our normal wake up time and leave the house time. Realizing that I might be late for school too, I quickly got dressed, and went down immediately to eat my breakfast. At first, I thought that breakfast was only milk, because of shortage of time. However, my dad poured cereal into my milk, and microwaved mine with his milk. To save a few precious seconds, I was getting my spoon while I was waiting for the microwave to heat up my milk. I quickly ate my cereal, and went up to get my backpack. However, I had to brush my teeth before I could do anything, so I raced myself up the stairs and brushed my teeth. After all that chaotic events, I headed to school in my dad’s car. I was a little bit late when I was at the school, but that did not matter because it was just once. 


1/2/2014


Today was a normal day. In the morning, I woke up, feeling exhausted. I did not know why I felt exhausted, but I think that was because my muscles ached from sleeping too much. I finally urged myself to wake up. I thought that I would go downstairs and do all of my homework, which are twelve skills of IXL, a Ranger’s Apprentice Book summary, a cbc news report, and journal. I thought that I would head into a very boring day. I quickly pushed that thought aside as my dad said that I would have to run around the block. I sighed, because running is not a thing that I always like to do early in the morning. I got dressed, because the weather outside was too cold, and waited for my dad at the main floor. I thought that I would have to run laps around the block until my dad said that I could stop. I decided that this was not the time to ask, and ran outside. After a while, I asked my dad how many laps do I have to run, and he said four. As I finished my fourth lap, I headed towards my house.


03/02/2014


Today was a very normal day. I woke up, brushed my teeth, got changed, and I did other stuff as well. However, before I did all of that stuff, my brother had woken me up half an hour early so that I can run. If you are wondering why I am running so early in the morning, it is because I want to improve my PE marks, which are currently B right now, and I want to get an A. So I woke up, changed into my warmest clothes and jackets, since outside would be so cold that even my thickest jacket cannot keep the heat in and block out the cold. As I headed out, I realized that the sky was a bit brighter than usual, not because of the time I woke up at. I was shivering a lot while I was running with my brother, well not actually with my brother because he was way in ahead of me. After I finished my laps, I had gone to the house that I am living in and brushed my teeth. Then, I knocked on my parents’ room to allow me to go in their room. I did not know why I did that most of the day, but some instinct in my body told me that I should do it.