When I Consider How My Light Is Spent. 


The sonnet “When I Consider How My Light Is Spent” by John Milton uses a metaphor to compare “talent,” which originally meant their master’s money, to his eyesight. The servants who used their talent well and accrued interest for their master were praised, whereas those who had lost the “talent” were shunned and “cast into outer darkness.” Comparing this well-known definition of talent to Milton’s disappearing eyesight serves to demonstrate the despair he had felt upon realizing how his “light is spent.” As a slave would when he lost his master’s money, Milton cries and despairs, and he is unable to “serve therewith my Maker [God]” though he still wishes to do so. 


The master, God, and the King presented, respectively, also are part of a larger symbol representing Milton’s “authority.” First, he repents to his Master for failing to make good use of his talents, then repents to God for not being able to “serve therewith my Maker,” then God’s reply about kingliness. These figures are the ones Milton repents to for losing his sight, and being arguably the three most important figures in the Renaissance period, show Milton’s anguish. 


The theme of this poem is to recognize these gifts brought to us by God before they disappear suddenly. The clear sorrow of Milton in this poem serves this theme by showing that Milton had taken the gift of sight for granted, and if one uses their gifts wisely, they will not regret it like Milton did. Another theme of this poem is that “God doth not need Either man’s work or his own gifts;” rather, those who remain loyal and follow him as best they could is enough. 


I chose this sonnet for discussion because an author grieving his loss of sight is unique and provided interesting grounds for discussion. I also thought it was interesting that God liked those who followed him like a “mild yoke,” and didn’t need for “either man’s work or his own gifts.” Thus, even those who are disabled like Milton can still follow God and need not have any regrets or fear about their disability.