People always have memories good or bad. Everyone should remember all of their memories, which is pretty hard if it occurred when you were very young and now you are grown up. I think a good habit to do to remember all of these great memories is writing in your journal. That way, you are putting all of the bad things that had ha[a]ppened to you in a piece of p[b]aper before you forgot. Another reason to start writing is it helps you remember all of your good memories. By doing that, you can improve your life, and also get better at writing at the same time. Anyways, today, I am going to talk about one of my funny memories.
      I was crying so badly while I was going to school for the first time[c] , and that happens to every kid. At that time, when I was in kindergarten, I had lived with a very nice housekeeper before I moved to Canada. I have complained to the housekeepe[d]r many times for not picking me up from kindergarten at exactly one of the clock, of which she has followed many times. “Pick me up at one of the clock, promise?” “Promise” she said. That was what I said to her everyday and I sounded very serious, which was kind of funny. Then, when my housekeeper was either busy doing something and getting distracted or just got to my school late, I go crazy and cry not matter what whenever she was late, which was also funny. At that time, I had really hated kindergarten and cried pretty much all of the time I was in it before I got to grade 1. That continued for a very long time, but it all changed when I went to grade 1 for the first time. And I started to like school after I was in grade 1 and so far, I must say that school is pretty fun.
As you can see, that was a very fun experience for me to look back, however, I did not think of it as very funny when I was young, probably because I was very naive. See, that is the advantage of writing in your journal daily so that you can remember moments in life that is worth remembering. I did not know the effectiveness of journal writing until I actually started it , so you might think writing in your journal is not that effective, but you can realize the truth when you actually start doing it. If I had decided to write in my journal earlier, I could have remembered all my memories easier.




[a]present prog
[b]past perfect
[c]past prog
[d]present perfect