As a result of the changing space industry, there has been one company that is ready for commercial flights to space, with tickets being worth two hundred and fifty thousand dollars. Before I realized the truth, I thought as if nobody had paid for the commercial flight, as a result of its expensiveness. The Virgin Galactic space tourism said it will begin taking in customers to the plane as early as this year! I would rather wait until next year or even the year after that to do it because the safety of the customers will increase significantly and the cost will reduce dramatically. 


        To my surprise, nearly seven hundred people have paid 250,000 to go on a space tour, that will take them to space and allow them to experience the weightlessness. However, the company has yet to receive the FAA approval for taking customers up into space. In addition, the FAA has not established safety concerns and rules for space tourism yet, so taking people up to space might have to wait until next year. They have everything they need to establish a commercial space tourism program, but they just need a license to operate. The Reusable Launch Vehicle Mission License, it is the little piece of document that unlocks the key to Virgin Galactic’s mission to establish commercial space tourism. It is so important that without it, Virgin Galactic cannot send any untrained persons on board its ship, just former astronauts or military pilots or trainers are allowed to fly or test fly the airplane (or should I say the space ship?) to the orbit of the Earth, which is sixty miles above the Earth’s surface. If you are wondering the name of the space ship, it is Space Ship Two, I think they, the employees that work at Virgin Galactic, named it that because it is kind of like a name for the United States of America’s president’s aircraft, which is Air Force One. Attenborough said that getting approval from the FAA and the little document is one of the most major milestones that Virgin Galactic have to face in its mission to establish a space tourism organization. Even the two adult sons of the president of the Virgin Galactic cannot legally fly unless the company have the license, the license is that important. 


        Humans have accomplished many things in the world, some of which involve a very serious accident that kills hundreds of people. However, I hope that this one will not involve an accident.