Person I Look Up To
There are many great people out there that have shaped the world. I am mainly inspired by people who are generous and would do anything to improve other’s lives, but am not inspired by greedy millionaires that use the money only for themselves. Salman Khan perfectly fitted my perception of a great person because of his passions and determination to change the way learning works. The way he presents information in an encouraging voice will definitely boost a student’s understanding of a certain subject. I was also moved by the way he said good-bye to his profitable job and started devoting his life to Khan Academy, a non-profit website for people who want to learn.
        Throughout my whole life, my dream was to go to the top universities in the world and get a good job. On the other hand, I did not want to be the greedy rich people that used their money just for themselves and do not contribute a lot to society. Salman Khan perfectly fitted those conditions, so I looked forward to be him when I grew up. Another thing that made me inspire him was because he graduated from two very good universities:MIT and Harvard. Those two were my dream schools and I would do anything to be accepted into one of those universities. I believed that if I could get in, then I would be very respected and would have a very happy life. He also demonstrated his determination to change the way education works by quitting his prosperous job and starting the non-profit Khan Academy. 
        At first, I thought he did not record all of the videos, because that would take so much time and effort. However, later, I learned that he is making the videos full-time, and some of the topics in those videos were high school level, which he already surpassed. Sometimes, I wonder how does he know all of the physics, chemistry, biology, and the other advanced topics. Maybe he could have researched, but then that would undermine his reputation of being a good teacher and everyone would not trust him anymore. Therefore, I think he must have hired someone to do the video or researched very carefully and did the videos. Although people critic him as having many mistakes in his videos, everyone makes mistakes, and those mistakes do not really matter as they are just a supplement to the actual curriculum and should never be treated as a substitute for a teacher. 
        In my whole life, I have never seen someone as nice and generous as Salman Khan, who has helped thousands of students and parents who are refreshing their minds on various topics. His organization is also non-profit, which made to inspire him even more. Although critics have said that he makes mistakes in his videos, I and thousands of other students use Khan Academy as a supplement to the daily learning that we do from school.