World storms and hurricanes are always bad, but some of the strongest ones are worst. Most storms not only leave people dying and injured, but they also destroy the city’s man-made or natural-made structures. I have this feeling, when there is gross stuff on the ground or anything that feels gross, like the floor of a bathroom, I avoid stepping on it, especially if it is sandy. I hope that this motivates you to do something about global warming or the people that are affected by it.
Hurricane Katrina was the largest and third
strongest hurricane ever to be recorded to make landfall in the United States.
In addition, the damage
would have been reduced if the levees in New Orleans had been built for Category
five conditions. The winds in Hurricane Katrina had been so strong that
the winds speeds peaked up to one hundred and seventy five miles per hour after it had made landfall. The
hurricane was so strong that it had a strong surge of up to twenty feet, six
meters, high! In fact, Hurricane Katrina affected so much people that 705 were
reported as missing. Not only that it made seven hundred and five people lost,
but it also affected 15 million people in many different way and factors such
as economy, evacuations, gas prices, or drinking water. The final death toll was
one thousand eight hundred and thirty six people, one thousand five
hundred and seventy seven for Louisiana, and two hundred and thirty eight for
Mississippi. I have never
seen such a number of deaths in a period!
An estimated eighty percent of New Orleans was under the
water as if New Orleans had been an underwater city, and up to twenty
feet deep in places. Hurricanes break down building and other structures,
which might be very costly to repair. As for Hurricane Katrina, it was causing eighty
one billion dollars in structures
and property damages while it was earning its title as one of the costliest
hurricane ever in the United States’ history. In addition, it is
estimated that the total impact of Hurricane Katrina may exceed one hundred and
fifty billion dollars. As a result of Hurricane Katrina, thousands of local
residents were left unemployed, even though the area that had been affected by the
hurricane supported about one million non-farm jobs. I would rather move to another city than stay in the
old city and wait for a job.
As I can see, natural disasters can happen at any time, and can appear unexpectedly. I think that hurricanes and typhoons are getting bigger and bigger, because of global warming. I suggest that if you feel sorry to the people in the way of a storm, especially Typhoon Haiyan, then you may try donating online. I wish that we had better ways of taking care for people who need assistance from storms.