In the poem “The Author to Her Book,” Bradstreet gives us a glimpse into the complex and intimate relationship between an author and their work, their “ill-formed offspring,” as denoted by Bradstreet. The poem’s extended metaphor about an author’s relationship to her work is strikingly similar to the relationship between a mother and her child. Bradstreet describes this complex relationship through this metaphor with characteristic elements from a mother-son relationship, comparison of a book to a disabled child, as well as a change in attitude from the beginning to end.


Bradstreet takes the typical characteristics of a mother-son relationship and applies it cunningly to the relationship between her and her book. This metaphor begins in the very first line, as Bradstreet denotes her book as an “ill-formed offspring of [her] feeble brain,” and continues throughout the poem as the author treats the book as if it was her own child, even calling herself “thy Mother” to the book. This comparison helps cement how the author feels towards her book with a comparison to something universal—a parent child relationship. The relationship portrayed in this poem, however, has more dimensions than just a pure parent child relationship. Nonetheless, it cements the reader in a place universal to humans, and the intimacy of the author’s relationship to her book is clear.


There are also elements of distaste and revulsion of the author’s book of which cannot be portrayed by a pure mother child relationship. Bradstreet’s diction, especially in the first half of the poem, demonstrates the narrator’s revulsion towards her own work clearly. The narrator claims her book a “rambling brat (in print)” (8) and that its “visage was so irksome” (10) that to force the author to “cast [it] as one unfit for light” (9). Thus, the metaphor here is not purely a mother-child relationship, but could be thought of as a mother’s relationship with her disabled son. This hypothesis is in line with the conservative worldview of the poem’s context, and even though Christianity was receding, Bradstreet’s description matches those of a mother with a disabled child in the Renaissance time period. For example, the author is embarrassed when her book is exposed, full of errors, to the public view, similar to how a mother in that time period would be embarrassed to see her child’s problems exposed to public view.


The author’s attitude changes from the beginning towards the end, which further accentuates this complex relationship by showing the narrator’s helpless acceptance of the state of her book, and acceptance to its publication. Poverty had caused her to sell her book even in its disordered state, similar to how a poor mother would send her child away, which was common in the time period the poem was written. All of the author’s beratements now contradict her need for the book to survive. The fact that the author has once criticized and rebuked the book now contradicts her helpless decision to let it go, and even the diction in the last few lines reflect this attitude: poor, helpless, and futile.


The poem’s controlling metaphor helps ground the author’s attitude in something concrete, universal to all readers, and helps for them to understand the attitude of the speaker. With cunning similarities to a mother-son relationship, comparisons between a disabled child and her “ill-formed offspring,” the book, and a change of attitude from beginning to end, Bradstreet conveys to readers the intimate and motherlike relationship of an author to her book.








Works Cited


Bradstreet, Anne. “The Author to Her Book.” 1678. (Print)