Climate change has affected us greatly throughout this year, or should I say this century? That fact means less snow from all around the world, which also means that there would be less skiing, snowboarding, snowball fights, bobsledding, and many more. In addition to the loss of winter games, the city that is hosting the Olympics must be very decisive because they need a large amount of snow. So the question is that is climate change threatening cities that are looking forward to hosting the winter olympics games next year or the year after that? Most winter olympics games require snow to operate, but without snow, will the winter olympics games be banned? I do not think so, I think that the world and countries will decide and team together to select a place suitable for the winter olympics games. 


According to a new report from the United Nations, an organization that supports peace and equality, most famous cities that host the winter olympics will not be able to host any more because of the climate change. At this rate, where the Earth continues to heat up, only six of the nineteen locations are available for hosting the winter olympics games! At that rate, winter olympics games will have to be limited. According to conservative climate models, Vancouver would not have the suitable climate for hosting the winter olympics games this year!California’s Squaw Valley would be too warm to serve, or host the winter olympics games by 2050. Scientists, or meteorologists, predict that February temperatures in the past winter olympic sites will climb or ascend to 2.1 degrees by the year two thousand and fifty. The only city that is reliable to host the winter olympics by the year two thousand and eighty and onwards are Calgary, France's Albertville, Italy's Cortina d'Ampezzo, Switzerland's St. Moritz, Japan's Sapporo and Salt Lake City in the U.S. CBC journalist, Scott, says that climate change is threatening the cultural legacy of the olympics. In order to resolve the problem, technicians and other people are trying different things, such as moving things indoor, refrigerating luge tracks, make snow, use snowflex, a material that has the same properties as snow. While last year was being one of the warmest years so far, we were predicting that we are going to have a year like that.


I just hope that there will be more snowfall.