Without a clear goal to focus our energy and drive us to grow, we cease to be truly alive. We are inert particles floating on the sea of life. This is true of not only ourselves, but our institutions- our families, our corporations, and our societies. The moment we cease to grow, we begin to die. 


Is growth necessary to a happy and productive life?


Life is full of growth. In my opinion, we cannot properly live life without growing in our abilities. If we don’t grow, then we are just going to stay the same throughout our whole life, but as I said before, life is nothing if we don’t continue growing. Life is also about growth for all of the institutions or groups that we are in, such as our family, our city, our country, or our company, life is about growing and becoming better every day. In addition, no one can voluntarily stop themselves from growing, it is a natural part of our body, our brain, our mind, and our soul to grow and become better. The struggles that we have to overcome and the successes that we fret over define our life and our personalities.
        As humans, we have a better and harder responsibility than just to eat, drink, then sleep. We have the responsibility to improve upon ourselves, to seek challenges. We cannot be happy from just staying where we currently are and being fine with it. That is not happiness. Happiness is finding something new, something undiscovered that we have not tried before, something that makes us better as human beings. We cannot also be productive at all by not growing and staying the same throughout our whole life. Being productive is being able to produce large amounts of work in the least amount of time, so without growing in our ability to do things, we cannot be continually productive. My uncle Tom in Florida always embraced the things that he loved and rejects the things that he does not like or hates. This is not growing, because he is not willing to try something new, but instead stick with his happy, known world. Tom was not open-minded, and that lead him to not finding new opportunities and things that he likes. Frequently, Tom would always be not happy with something, mainly because he did not welcome growth and new things. Therefore, many people learned to cope and be flexible with what he demanded, and even I grew used to his constant boredness and requests. The real problem with Tom was that he was not open to trying other things that may not please him, so he cannot find anymore hobbies other than the ones that he already loved, which were soccer and video games.
        Growing is also very important to not just we human beings as individuals, but also as large productive groups of people, institutions. Many of the qualities and advantages of growing from individuals also apply to institutions greatly, such as being more productive and the inability to voluntarily stop growing. A family needs to be constantly growing, open to new ideas, and ready to try new things. There was one family I met while travelling back to Vietnam, my origin, who kept on advancing, never doing the same thing over and over and over again, but instead doing new things that other families have not have the courage to try doing. They sacrificed their peaceful and golden life to a more crude one in Canada, where they lost most of their money, jobs, and other things that they value very much. They had a very luxurious life in Vietnam, with houses carefully crafted by a dozen different architects, dedicated drivers and companies, building, but mostly their job, which was very high paying, one of the highest in the whole area. The family even realized and faced the fact that long or short term benefit may not even compensate for the sacrifices they made to move to Canada. They have continually grown and tried new things, instead of sticking with their golden and lovely world, thinking that is the limit to their life. Without moving to Canada, they would have stayed in Vietnam and live their luxurious life, but will they be as happy, managing quite a few different companies and stock markets?
        We as humans embrace growth and improvement, so it is the most important factor in determining a person’s happiness. We cannot do much without growing, and we cannot be very successful without growing. Many people deter from growing and trying new things because they are afraid of the risks that have to overcome, the sacrifices they have to make. However, to grow, we have to take risks that we would not have normally taken.