Claim: In the "Digital Parent Trap," Eliana Dockterman presents both sides of the debate on technology use and education, compellingly argues for embracing technology, and refutes common stereotypes about technology.


Dockterman begins by establishing the importance of this topic, with "27% of them use tablets, 43% use smartphones, and 52% use laptops." After, she writes, "Los Angeles County alone will spend $30 million on classroom iPads this year, outfitting 640,000 kids by late 2014." These 2 statements, placed right in the first paragraph, establishes the topic as important and urgent. In the next 4 paragraphs, the author shows evidence and some examples of "digital detox" schools that cater to parents strongly against technology use. Next, she says “more than 80% of U.S. school districts say they are on the cusp of incorporating Web-enabled tablets into everyday curriculums.” By summarizing both sides of this “urgent” debate, the author ensures the reader knows the importance of this issue and makes it easier for the reader to follow along when she states her argument in the next paragraphs. 


After presenting examples of “digital detox” programs and stereotypes about technology use, Dockterman then refutes them using studies. For example, immediately after she quotes Jim Taylor, “[educational games]'re a load of crap … meant to make money,” the author states “new studies have shown they[educational games] can add real value.” 2 examples of studies that concluded educational games were beneficial follow. “In a recent study by SRI, a nonprofit research firm, kids who played games like Samorost (solving puzzles) did 12% better on logic tests than those who did not. And at MIT's Education Arcade, playing the empire-building game Civilization piqued students' interest in history and was directly linked to an improvement in the quality of their history-class reports.” Instead of just arguing her position, the author shows the pitfalls of the other arguments, making her article more persuasive. 


In the final 3 paragraphs of this article, the author cites several studies showing that technology use in the classrooms do, indeed, lead to better outcomes. The final 3 paragraphs of Dockterman’s article gives a bright outlook on the future of technology and its benefits to the classroom. She illustrates that in the end, regardless of whether technology use is actually beneficial in the classroom, technology presides over college and job applications, and cites that “‘If we're not exposing our students to this stuff [technology] early, " Jackson continues, "they're going to be left behind.’”


Dockterman eloquently refutes age-old technology stereotypes and presents compelling evidence on the benefits of technology use, ending her article with a warning, that “as with any childhood privilege, monitoring is key.”


How does Paul Bogard build his argument?


Paul Bogard, in his article noting the harmful effects of light pollution, uses personal anecdotes, well-known organizations and sources, and examples of what could happen to bring to light the intensity of this problem. 


Bogard starts his essay off with a personal anecdote, captivating the reader’s attention. While this anecdote might just be a hook, it also sets up for the sentence, “but now, when 8 of 10 children born in the United States will never know a sky dark enough for the Milky Way,” to hit hard. It is this sentence that brings the mood of this article from a memory to an urgent problem that affects us all. This anecdote brings a personal touch to the essay, framing the problem it discusses (light pollution) as an issue that affects us all, right now. Later in the article, Bogard brings this issue back and considers how it affects every one of us, with the statement “Those of us over 35 are perhaps among the last generation to have known truly dark nights. Even the northern lake where I was lucky to spend my summers has seen its darkness diminish.” By adding this personal touch to the article, Bogard brings a problem that most have never heard of into light, and makes people see that it is indeed an urgent problem.


Bogard also cites several well-known credible sources like WHO and American Medical Association in his essay. He uses these large organizations to support his case and bring to light the urgency of this issue. By showing his readers that even large organizations acknowledge the importance of this problem and calls for an urgent solution, then it must be an urgent problem. If the author had decided not to quote these organizations, however, and instead used reasoning and emotional appeals, then his argument would not have been as strong. 


If readers haven’t been convinced that light pollution is indeed a large problem, then Bogard bombards them with more facts about what might happen if light pollution continues. He cites examples of endangered species that depends on darkness, and the animals that do their activities in the dark. He also mentions the night bats that save American farmers billions of dollars, alluding to what might happen if there is no more darkness. Bogard cites all of these examples of animals that might get affected negatively by light pollution. As a result, readers are warned of the ecological impacts of just flipping the light switch; Bogard also reminds them that, regardless of the impacts of light pollution on humans, other inhabitants of Earth might get affected too.


Bogard uses personal connections, cites well-known sources, and gives realistic examples of what could happen if we continue to emit light pollution to captivate his readers and bring awareness to the problem of light pollution. His thorough article frames a problem that many Americans are blind of to light (no pun intended), and he does that by incorporating his experiences with science and facts to convince the reader of his argument.
















Leo W. Gerard writes an interesting piece about the accessibility of college education that leaves the reader with lots of questions. Gerard uses constant references to the American dream, strategically complements facts and analogies, and taps into the reader’s well of national pride to coat an otherwise hollow argument into an interesting one.


To put the problem of exorbitant college tuition and show the disastrous impacts it has on today’s students, Gerard makes constant references to the American Dream. First, the author recalls in the old times, when many people, now grandparents of these teenagers today, were able to achieve the American dream easily. Then, he shows the difficulty of achieving the same dream now, with “One of those old-time mill jobs—if it were still available—wouldn’t cover a year’s tuition now.” While this is overall a strong argument, it mainly targets older people, as they have been through the same experiences—working in mill jobs—and will realize the difficulty of attaining a college degree. Gerard writes, “So no matter how hard they worked to graduate college and labor on the job, their American Dream is permanently encumbered.” He talks of the students in third perspective and presents a grim future for these students, effectively sealing their fate that nothing could be done. Using these references to the “American dream” has allowed Gerard to connect emotionally with older readers and allows him to “exploit” their past experiences to construct his argument.


In addition to making emotional appeals, Gerard also uses cleverly placed facts to emphasize the problem of rising college tuition. In the fifth paragraph, the author first says,” One of those old-time mill jobs—if it were still available—wouldn’t cover a year’s tuition now.” Then, he presents a statistic, that college tuition has raised by 250 percent, to complement the analogy with a concrete fact. By complementing strong facts with analogies, Gerard frames these “meaningless” numbers to emotions and sympathy for these students. Later in the essay, he also uses this strategy. After a brief historical explanation of the rising tuitions, Gerard writes, “For many teenagers, this foreclosed a college degree. It was too daunting to borrow tens of thousands of dollars then graduate into a shaky job market. For other young people, it has meant massive borrowing and debt.” This paragraph alone would have been the author’s weak assumption, unable to convince the reader much. In the following paragraph, Gerard complements the otherwise weak analogy with concrete facts: only 45% of students had to borrow money, but that number has risen to 66%. This strategic placement of facts and analogies complement each other to connect with the reader personally.


Gerard also connects with the reader by referring to past accomplishments of America—winning the space race, discovering cures for diseases—and describing the educational opportunities in the past. After his tirade on the outrageous prices of American colleges, Gerard takes a step back in the final 2 paragraphs and considers the past achievements of America and its “long history of accepting education as a public responsibility.” He contemplates the past achievements of America that many readers hold pride in, and implies that these achievements were because of accessible college education. Gerard exposes his readers by tapping into their well of national pride, and resignedly implies it was because of America’s great education support in the past. 


All of these tactics the author uses, from making constant references to the American dream, to strategically placing facts, and tapping into the readers’ well of national pride and exploiting it, wraps his otherwise bland argument into a compelling and captivating one. This article leaves the reader with heartfelt sympathy for those students who have to endure the college system and leaves them questioning the validity and accessibility of the old American dream.