Claim: In the "Digital Parent Trap," Eliana Dockterman presents both sides of the debate on technology use and education, compellingly argues for embracing technology, and refutes common stereotypes about technology.


Dockterman begins by establishing the importance of this topic, with "27% of them use tablets, 43% use smartphones, and 52% use laptops." After, she writes, "Los Angeles County alone will spend $30 million on classroom iPads this year, outfitting 640,000 kids by late 2014." These 2 statements, placed right in the first paragraph, establishes the topic as important and urgent. In the next 4 paragraphs, the author shows evidence and some examples of "digital detox" schools that cater to parents strongly against technology use. Next, she says “more than 80% of U.S. school districts say they are on the cusp of incorporating Web-enabled tablets into everyday curriculums.” By summarizing both sides of this “urgent” debate, the author ensures the reader knows the importance of this issue and makes it easier for the reader to follow along when she states her argument in the next paragraphs. 


After presenting examples of “digital detox” programs and stereotypes about technology use, Dockterman then refutes them using studies. For example, immediately after she quotes Jim Taylor, “[educational games]'re a load of crap … meant to make money,” the author states “new studies have shown they[educational games] can add real value.” 2 examples of studies that concluded educational games were beneficial follow. “In a recent study by SRI, a nonprofit research firm, kids who played games like Samorost (solving puzzles) did 12% better on logic tests than those who did not. And at MIT's Education Arcade, playing the empire-building game Civilization piqued students' interest in history and was directly linked to an improvement in the quality of their history-class reports.” Instead of just arguing her position, the author shows the pitfalls of the other arguments, making her article more persuasive. 


In the final 3 paragraphs of this article, the author cites several studies showing that technology use in the classrooms do, indeed, lead to better outcomes. The final 3 paragraphs of Dockterman’s article gives a bright outlook on the future of technology and its benefits to the classroom. She illustrates that in the end, regardless of whether technology use is actually beneficial in the classroom, technology presides over college and job applications, and cites that “‘If we're not exposing our students to this stuff [technology] early, " Jackson continues, "they're going to be left behind.’”


Dockterman eloquently refutes age-old technology stereotypes and presents compelling evidence on the benefits of technology use, ending her article with a warning, that “as with any childhood privilege, monitoring is key.”