Claim: In the "Digital Parent Trap," Eliana Dockterman presents both sides of the debate on technology use and education, compellingly argues for embracing technology, and refutes common stereotypes about technology.


Dockterman begins by establishing the importance of this topic, with "27% of them use tablets, 43% use smartphones, and 52% use laptops." After, she writes, "Los Angeles County alone will spend $30 million on classroom iPads this year, outfitting 640,000 kids by late 2014." These 2 statements, placed right in the first paragraph, establishes the topic as important and urgent. In the next 4 paragraphs, the author shows evidence and some examples of "digital detox" schools that cater to parents strongly against technology use. Next, she says “more than 80% of U.S. school districts say they are on the cusp of incorporating Web-enabled tablets into everyday curriculums.” By summarizing both sides of this “urgent” debate, the author ensures the reader knows the importance of this issue and makes it easier for the reader to follow along when she states her argument in the next paragraphs. 


After presenting examples of “digital detox” programs and stereotypes about technology use, Dockterman then refutes them using studies. For example, immediately after she quotes Jim Taylor, “[educational games]'re a load of crap … meant to make money,” the author states “new studies have shown they[educational games] can add real value.” 2 examples of studies that concluded educational games were beneficial follow. “In a recent study by SRI, a nonprofit research firm, kids who played games like Samorost (solving puzzles) did 12% better on logic tests than those who did not. And at MIT's Education Arcade, playing the empire-building game Civilization piqued students' interest in history and was directly linked to an improvement in the quality of their history-class reports.” Instead of just arguing her position, the author shows the pitfalls of the other arguments, making her article more persuasive. 


In the final 3 paragraphs of this article, the author cites several studies showing that technology use in the classrooms do, indeed, lead to better outcomes. The final 3 paragraphs of Dockterman’s article gives a bright outlook on the future of technology and its benefits to the classroom. She illustrates that in the end, regardless of whether technology use is actually beneficial in the classroom, technology presides over college and job applications, and cites that “‘If we're not exposing our students to this stuff [technology] early, " Jackson continues, "they're going to be left behind.’”


Dockterman eloquently refutes age-old technology stereotypes and presents compelling evidence on the benefits of technology use, ending her article with a warning, that “as with any childhood privilege, monitoring is key.”










How does Paul Bogard build his argument?


Paul Bogard, in his article noting the harmful effects of light pollution, uses personal anecdotes, well-known organizations and sources, and examples of what could happen to bring to light the intensity of this problem. 


Bogard starts his essay off with a personal anecdote, captivating the reader’s attention. While this anecdote might just be a hook, it also sets up for the sentence, “but now, when 8 of 10 children born in the United States will never know a sky dark enough for the Milky Way,” to hit hard. It is this sentence that brings the mood of this article from a memory to an urgent problem that affects us all. This anecdote brings a personal touch to the essay, framing the problem it discusses (light pollution) as an issue that affects us all, right now. Later in the article, Bogard brings this issue back and considers how it affects every one of us, with the statement “Those of us over 35 are perhaps among the last generation to have known truly dark nights. Even the northern lake where I was lucky to spend my summers has seen its darkness diminish.” By adding this personal touch to the article, Bogard brings a problem that most have never heard of into light, and makes people see that it is indeed an urgent problem.


Bogard also cites several well-known credible sources like WHO and American Medical Association in his essay. He uses these large organizations to support his case and bring to light the urgency of this issue. By showing his readers that even large organizations acknowledge the importance of this problem and calls for an urgent solution, then it must be an urgent problem. If the author had decided not to quote these organizations, however, and instead used reasoning and emotional appeals, then his argument would not have been as strong. 


If readers haven’t been convinced that light pollution is indeed a large problem, then Bogard bombards them with more facts about what might happen if light pollution continues. He cites examples of endangered species that depends on darkness, and the animals that do their activities in the dark. He also mentions the night bats that save American farmers billions of dollars, alluding to what might happen if there is no more darkness. Bogard cites all of these examples of animals that might get affected negatively by light pollution. As a result, readers are warned of the ecological impacts of just flipping the light switch; Bogard also reminds them that, regardless of the impacts of light pollution on humans, other inhabitants of Earth might get affected too.


Bogard uses personal connections, cites well-known sources, and gives realistic examples of what could happen if we continue to emit light pollution to captivate his readers and bring awareness to the problem of light pollution. His thorough article frames a problem that many Americans are blind of to light (no pun intended), and he does that by incorporating his experiences with science and facts to convince the reader of his argument.
















Leo W. Gerard writes an interesting piece about the accessibility of college education that leaves the reader with lots of questions. Gerard uses constant references to the American dream, strategically complements facts and analogies, and taps into the reader’s well of national pride to coat an otherwise hollow argument into an interesting one.


To put the problem of exorbitant college tuition and show the disastrous impacts it has on today’s students, Gerard makes constant references to the American Dream. First, the author recalls in the old times, when many people, now grandparents of these teenagers today, were able to achieve the American dream easily. Then, he shows the difficulty of achieving the same dream now, with “One of those old-time mill jobs—if it were still available—wouldn’t cover a year’s tuition now.” While this is overall a strong argument, it mainly targets older people, as they have been through the same experiences—working in mill jobs—and will realize the difficulty of attaining a college degree. Gerard writes, “So no matter how hard they worked to graduate college and labor on the job, their American Dream is permanently encumbered.” He talks of the students in third perspective and presents a grim future for these students, effectively sealing their fate that nothing could be done. Using these references to the “American dream” has allowed Gerard to connect emotionally with older readers and allows him to “exploit” their past experiences to construct his argument.


In addition to making emotional appeals, Gerard also uses cleverly placed facts to emphasize the problem of rising college tuition. In the fifth paragraph, the author first says,” One of those old-time mill jobs—if it were still available—wouldn’t cover a year’s tuition now.” Then, he presents a statistic, that college tuition has raised by 250 percent, to complement the analogy with a concrete fact. By complementing strong facts with analogies, Gerard frames these “meaningless” numbers to emotions and sympathy for these students. Later in the essay, he also uses this strategy. After a brief historical explanation of the rising tuitions, Gerard writes, “For many teenagers, this foreclosed a college degree. It was too daunting to borrow tens of thousands of dollars then graduate into a shaky job market. For other young people, it has meant massive borrowing and debt.” This paragraph alone would have been the author’s weak assumption, unable to convince the reader much. In the following paragraph, Gerard complements the otherwise weak analogy with concrete facts: only 45% of students had to borrow money, but that number has risen to 66%. This strategic placement of facts and analogies complement each other to connect with the reader personally.


Gerard also connects with the reader by referring to past accomplishments of America—winning the space race, discovering cures for diseases—and describing the educational opportunities in the past. After his tirade on the outrageous prices of American colleges, Gerard takes a step back in the final 2 paragraphs and considers the past achievements of America and its “long history of accepting education as a public responsibility.” He contemplates the past achievements of America that many readers hold pride in, and implies that these achievements were because of accessible college education. Gerard exposes his readers by tapping into their well of national pride, and resignedly implies it was because of America’s great education support in the past. 


All of these tactics the author uses, from making constant references to the American dream, to strategically placing facts, and tapping into the readers’ well of national pride and exploiting it, wraps his otherwise bland argument into a compelling and captivating one. This article leaves the reader with heartfelt sympathy for those students who have to endure the college system and leaves them questioning the validity and accessibility of the old American dream. 












Author Adam B. Summers, in his article “Bag Ban Bad for Freedom and Environment,” effectively articulates his argument that a plastic bag ban would be disastrous, by using cleverly placed facts and statistics, citing the future costs if the ban had actually passed, and providing previous examples where a plastic bag ban had resulted in disastrous effects.


Summers cleverly uses facts and statistics, coupled with a few paragraphs establishing his credibility, to argue that plastic bags are not as harmful to the environment. Before he shows this barrage of information against the plastic bag ban, however, the author first writes a “disclaimer,” claiming he “love[s] sea turtles as much as the next guy.” This establishes his credibility as a neutral commenter, rather than a radical conservative climate change denier. Before going into the facts, the author does one more thing. He acknowledges the other side of this debate, with “while public debate over plastic bag bans often devolves into emotional pleas to save the planet or preserve marine life,” and then, simultaneously shows he differs from them and transitions to the next paragraph, with “a little reason and perspective is in order.” Doing this allows Summers to indicate his position and hooks readers who would have otherwise thought this was another “emotional plea to save the planet.” With his credibility established, the author then lists off the facts about how plastic bags are actually not that damaging to the environment. If Summers had just decided to bombard the reader with facts, then it would not have had the same effect as if he provided and “set the stage” for the facts to be more persuasive. 


In addition to providing facts, Summers also estimates the disastrous things that would happen if the bag ban bill had been passed. He shows examples of the alternative types of bags people would use if plastic bags were banned, and proves why they are inferior both financially and environmentally to the plastic bag. Doing this, the author effectively asks the rhetorical question, “What bag must the people use?,” and provides the answer: none—the plastic bag is superior to all of them. The other proposed alternative—reusable bags—gets addressed in the next sentence, as he cites 2 university professors who found a spike in digestion-related diseases after San Francisco’s plastic bag ban. By tackling the problem of alternative solutions, he closes all of the possible ways forward after the bag ban, forcing readers to realize there is only one way left: backwards. 


After making it clear the bag ban leads us to a dead end, the author presents an example of a city that banned plastic bags and the resulting disastrous effects. Recalling when Ireland imposed a $0.20 on all plastic bags, the author says the additional cost just made consumers buy plastic bags in bulk and saving them for later, citing a “77 percent increase in the sale of plastic trash can liner bags.” This leaves the reader with the question, “If another person has failed to do something, then why are we expecting to succeed by doing the exact same thing?” Ending the article with this example also effectively summarizes all of the above points, as the author implies that this Irish failure was due to the reasons he had stated above, while also validating the author’s claim in concrete example.


The author of this article clearly and eloquently argues his point using 3 main strategies: cleverly placed facts, predicting disastrous costs, and examples where this has failed.


















In his eloquent article for the Washington Post, Dionne forms his argument on why universal national service is good by using numerous appeals to emotions, showing that others support this argument, and presenting counterclaims and shortcomings. 
Dionne appeals personally to the reader in the first few paragraphs of his article, by citing “the sentence in the Declaration of Independence we always remember.” In the following two paragraphs, he uses this sentence and wrangles with it such that the conclusion at the end of those paragraphs, that national service secures the rights we take for granted. He also implies that these rights do not come without a cost, and that cost is national service. By citing a well-known sentence from the Declaration of Independence and leveraging that to begin his argument for national service, Dionne has already connected with the reader’s emotions and ensures the reader is “invested” into what Dionne has to say afterwards. 
He also uses this tactic in the last paragraph, reminding the reader of how their “certain unalienable rights entail certain unavoidable responsibilities.” Strategically placing these 2 emotional appeals at the beginning and the end of this article envelopes the otherwise bland facts into one that tugs the heartstrings of the readers. This last paragraph also serves as a final call to action, a desperate plea to the ones who are still skeptical and haven’t been convinced yet, that this program is not a pawn in some shady political agenda, but rather a program borne out of good conscience and a “belief that certain unalienable rights entail certain unavoidable responsibilities.”
        Dionne also shows support from other officials for her argument. In paragraph 8, the author cites three people who have expressed their support for a program the author believes should be universal. One of those people are directly affiliated, as he is an Army general. While these people have little to add to the author’s arguments, presenting their support is a basic psychology tactic: readers are more likely to be open to a particular idea or argument if they know others support them as well. If the author were just to paraphrase what they have said but not mention their names or roles, then the reader would think this is a relatively new argument with not a lot of supporters. In addition, Dionne presents their points of views with an unbiased third person perspective. Readers can therefore think for themselves given the facts that the author has articulated, and form their opinions based on their interpretation of the facts, instead of adopting the author’s point of view. 
        By presenting counterarguments and acknowledging some shortcomings to universal expected national service, Dionne establishes himself as a credible and factual person. Being blind to the shortcomings of his argument would have sent a clear message to the reader that the author is biased, uninformed, and one-sided. In the second last paragraph, he shows “some challenges” and acknowledges some problems, but Dionne also presents solutions and warns that additional work would be required to make this program a reality. This set of points—counterargument and possible solutions—informs the readers of the other side of this debate but also convinces them of why that argument is invalid. The author is then viewed as credible, fair, informed, resulting in a more “accepting” reader who will more likely follow up on the author’s arguments.
        Using emotional appeals, citing support from others, and presenting counterarguments and shortcomings establish the author as credible and informed, and strengthens his argument. His carefully structured article ensures readers will accept Dionne’s point of view and most likely take action by accepting their “unavoidable responsibilities.” 
















































In Klinenberg’s brilliant article denouncing our over-reliance on air conditioning, he eloquently presents his arguments and enriches them by acknowledging counterarguments, using vivid language, and making personal appeals to the reader. 
In Klinenberg’s article against the heavy usage of air conditioning, the author doesn’t just present his arguments, but he also acknowledges counter-arguments as well. Why would he show readers the opposing view when he is trying to convince them to decrease their reliance on air conditioning? Showing both sides to this debate establishes the author’s credibility as fair and informed, instead of one-sided and biased. Readers, then, are more likely to accept an informed person speaking about an issue rather than a biased and uninformed person speaking about the same issue. The author doesn’t just do this, however, as he also refutes the counter arguments that he presented. Essentially, Klinenberg is showing the other side of the argument but also explaining why it is invalid. The readers could then come to their own conclusions about the results of over-relying on air conditioning, instead of blindly adopting the author’s point of view. 
Klinenberg uses vivid language, such as metaphors, hyperboles, and similes, to enrich his discussion on why our over-dependence of air conditioning is bad. In the last sentence of his first paragraph, Klinenberg writes, “As a climate-change adaption strategy, this is as dumb as it gets.” In the second paragraph, he writes, “I’ve long advocated public-health programs that help truly vulnerable people, whether isolated elders in broiling urban apartments or farm workers who toil in sunbaked fields.” He also says, “What's indefensible is our habit of converting homes, offices and massive commercial outlets into igloos on summer days.” While this is only a small portion of the literary devices he uses, these couch and enrich the otherwise ordinary arguments he makes. Using these hyperboles and similes and metaphors help the author connect more with the reader, not through a powerful argument, but through a powerful prose. Just the very prose the author uses is enough for the reader to turn down his A/C, but complement that with a strong argument and we will have got a hard-hitting powerful article.
In addition to Klinenberg’s excellent use of literary devices, the author also makes personal appeals to connect more directly with the reader, using the word “you.” The most prominent example of this lies in the last paragraph, where Klinenberg makes his last, desperate appeal to the reader, which are essentially pleas for them to turn down the A/C. The author, who was previously talking about how big malls and shops have been using air conditioning in a “suicidal fashion.” However, none of what he talks about in the middle of the article changes much of the readers’ daily lives—most of them don’t control the air conditioning temperature in big malls, and they also don’t have to be responsible for the bills. The author realizes this, turns the tables, and puts the responsibility directly onto the readers themselves. He writes, somewhat angrily, that “If you can't stand the heat, you should know that blasting the AC will ultimately make us all even hotter.” This statement puts the responsibility and the consequences directly back to the reader, and now he feels compelled to do something (perhaps, turning down the air conditioning), instead of just passing off the problems and consequences to someone else. 
        Klinenberg, in his compelling article for Time Magazine on why our over-reliance on A/C will be disastrous for all, uses acknowledgements to counterarguments, vivid language, and appeals to emotion. 


































































Alva Noe eloquently employs many strategies to argue why cell-by-cell mapping of the brain is a bad idea, and uses figures of speech and analogies to make her argument even stronger.


Noe uses figures of speech in her article to convince the readers that cell-by-cell mapping of the brain is not necessarily a good thing. In the third paragraph, when the reader still hasn’t been invested much into the article, Noe ends with an oxymoron, “a glorious and heroic step backwards.” The last word from this sentence contradicts every other word in this paragraph, and what would have seemed like a compliment to this scientific idea is now a humorous figure of speech. Not only is this humorous and sets the tone for the rest of this article, but it also establishes the author’s position in a surprising way. Noe also uses hyperboles to simplify what otherwise would have been a complicated topic—brain mapping—into one the reader can easily understand and form opinions. She compares this scientific endeavour as “a map being built as an exact, to-size replica of the domain being mapped.” Framing the debate in this way allows her to more effectively argue for her side, as this analogy makes cell by cell mapping of the brain utterly pointless. 


Noe also employs several analogies throughout this article to shine the debate in a more favorable light for her argument. She thinks of this scientific project as “understanding how a bird flies by examining the behaviour of individual feathers.” Essentially, the author implies to her readers that examining the individual cells of the human brain will do little to contribute to the overall scientific knowledge of how the human brain works. Noe also stretches this example out to the next paragraph, explaining in detail about finding a computer on the beach (?) and decrypting its components and workings to determine what exactly does the computer do. Raising this analogy allows the author to create a strawmen and easily argue that, for a person with no knowledge about computers, finding out about every little component would not be the best way to go. 


The author also uses more analogies in her article too. In paragraph seven, the author adds already another analogy to her long list of analogies, and mentions that trying to “to understand the brain's holistic operation in terms of what cells are doing but, instead, that it might be impossible—like trying to understand the stock market in terms of quantum mechanics.” By breaking up an already complicated scientific process—understanding the complexities of the human brain—into an even more complicated concept that has nothing to do with the stock market (quantum mechanics), Noe ensures the readers will have absolutely no idea of what she is talking about, and as is the tendency of the human brain, will automatically side with the author’s previous arguments and strawmen. 


Noe, through brilliant figures of speech and strawmen analogies, compellingly argues for the complex idea that cell-by-cell mapping of the brain is not as good as it sounds.