Many governments spend their money on building their country’s infrastructure or exploration, most of which are space exploration because many other countries are focusing on space exploration as well. For instance, Russia is going to send out a space probe that will land on a comet, take pictures of it, and send it back to Earth for scientists and astronomers. However, I think most rich governments bother too much on space exploration that they forget how many people are without shelter and food in their country as if space exploration was the most important thing. Still, there are some people left without shelter and food in certain parts of the world, including rich countries like the United States and Canada. Still, the government cannot help all the people in their country, but they can get less people to be so helpless. Anyways, I will talk about whether governments should spend their money on basic needs-shelter, food, water- or space exploration. 

Humans have discovered and wondered many of space’s secrets, and today’s astronomers are ready to reveal them to the world. Governments are building spaceships to do jobs, and each job should uncover secrets of space that we have never known before. I think that the people, or countries, were being very smart while they were building the International Space Station, or also known as the ISS. I think that they are smart because the astronauts that live there for a long term period do not have to go up to space, down to the Earth, and up, and down. However, I think every month or so, there must be a cargo ship that travels to space and delivers food, experiment supplies, et cetera. Anyways, humans had dreamed of going to space before Industrial Revolution. However, our dream today is even bigger than that, and it is building a base on Mars for humans to live if the Earth gets crowded. I hope that governments will be looking back at their country and recognizing how many people are still homeless and without food this year. Also, some people that have homes, foods, and jobs still do not have some of the most basic items. Still, governments should not put their back to their dreams of going to space. I wish that there could be an organization that is worldwide, has government support, and gives money to people. I would rather help the people that are homeless than start building a base on Mars for the next generation of humans. 




If we were building a base on Mars next year, then the governments would be getting very excited and forgetting about their country.