topic: Do you think that people are capable of finding happiness or are they always searching for something beyond what they have?


Happiness is not a tangible thing, it cannot be travelled to, worn, or touched. There are many factors that can cause happiness to a person. My friend is happy when he wins a contest, I am happy when I get good marks, and my other friend is happy when he plays some games. Although there are many definitions for happiness and there has been a lot of debate on what the word “happiness” itself most nearly means, I think of the word “happiness” as being satisfied, or bliss, or a time in which there is no sadness to interfere with the flow of happiness. There are also people that think happiness is not a feeling itself, but the absence of a feeling, like cold is not energy, but the absence of energy. After having experienced both aspects, I think that sticking to one thing and enhancing our happiness is better than searching for something else. 
        My friend found true happiness when he was with his instruments. His mood always turned positive even in the darkest times of the day when he was playing an instrument. Although he was very happy at those times and always looked forward to them, he often missed the band classes because there were very few of them in a week. His happiness was because he loved playing instruments and dealing with musical elements. Unlike my dad, my friends only stuck with one thing and developed it to become his passion. Although sometimes, he almost nearly quit his musical talent during some of the frustrating times, my friend kept on persevering, and developing his happiness in one single field.
In my humble opinion, many people’s happiness only exists for a short amount of time, before they grow tired of it and their emotions or feelings turn sour. My dad always gets hooked up in some hobby, such as video making or tennis or selling items, most of the time phones, on Ebay or craigslist. However, his transitory hobby would suddenly become boring and he would switch to another thing to do or do nothing. As you can see, his happiness is temporary, and they would suddenly be replaced by boredom, and the curiosity of finding other things to do. It is impossible for him to be happy forever at only one thing. One moment, he would be figuring out how to make videos, and the next, my dad would be in a phone call with a customer on Ebay. Just last week, he quit selling random items such as phones, tablets, cases, and other things on Ebay because it was too complicated and there were many scams. 


 I think it is better to stick with one thing and enhance our happiness with it, instead of always looking for something new to try.