2. How does education contribute to a fairer future?


Fairness before democracy was the right to live a life without being unjustly killed. Any further rights were not just unrealistic, but they were out of human imagination—peasants and the majority of the population had no time to think of any other pleasures than having food. Yet, even this simple right to life was not guaranteed and had to be fought for, with swords, guns, and consequently, deaths. The stronger the populace, purely in terms of the ability to fight, then the “fairer” society was. One of weak peasants who couldn’t fight meant full authority for the government to do whatever they wished. 


Democracy, however, changed the context of fairness: it now is no longer the right to a life, nor the right to food. Perhaps, the staple of democracy is not any of the rights guaranteed by the Charter or the Constitution, but rather it is about the possibility to govern oneself—to try to allow every person to have a voice in their own life. That alone is the greatest right a government could give any person: control over the laws that dictate how they live. 


With this great right, however, comes the requirement of participation in discourse with others who might not agree, and think for oneself the policies that suits one best. Democracy assumes that humans have evolved beyond basic cavemen who have no other will than to be enslaved to their human whims. It requires one to let their egos go and open their ideas to others for criticism, to think for themselves rather than adopt the schools of thought commonly presented on television, but most importantly of all, requires one to not shut themselves in acceptance, because blind acceptance corrupts democracy. 


The voice democracy has given us was not so just we could lounge in acceptance and work against the values of fairness. This freedom of speech, however, is not necessarily a freedom. For uneducated people, it can be a trap to the pits of extremism on both sides of the political spectrum—a trap that holds its victims in through human nature’s fondness for acceptance. 


Freedom of speech is not different from giving everyone a sword in the pre-democratic times. A sword meant the possibility of rebellion, but still didn’t mean anything if the swords weren’t in trained hands. Similar to a sword, a voice doesn’t automatically fight for fairness by itself—its user needs to be educated to fight for fairness.


However, misusing a sword poses far greater threat to the individual—it kills. The consequences of misusing a voice do not harm the individual as much as they harm broader society. Since democratic society is based around ideas, a few influential voices with particular agendas to fulfill could drum up fear and cynicism with only a section of airtime and cleverly placed words—said with the voice their ancestors had fought for. 


Perhaps, in this perspective, democracy has made the fight for fairness safer, but harder. Education enables people to use the tools of democracy towards fairness, but a lack of education can also mean the opposite, that people allow their ideas to fester within like-minded groups and grow increasingly more polarized. 


Discourse takes full advantage of the tools of democracy, and prevents such polarization from exposure to only like-minded ideas. Discourse involves more than just talking about ideas. It requires one to let go of their ego and actually think. When people live paycheck to paycheck with not even the guarantee of a roof above their head the next week, as is common among the uneducated, discourse seems more like a hobby richer and educated people take up on their free time. While educated people have their minds occupied with facts, and whose opinions stem from the facts they have learned in school, uneducated people take a rather different route to arrive at their, generally, more polarized opinions: through the media. 


Uneducated people’s opinions have their basis not on facts, but rather on emotions and fear—both of which come from the media. Building a wall to protect a nation from immigration seems an absurd idea, even to someone with no education. However, this lack of education, combined with the passive and tired brain of a blue-collar worker and the feel-good nature of the media corners people into polarization and cynicism.


These 2 evils against fairness, polarization and cynicism, are all caused and incited by fear mongering media, and further discourage discourse which, as we have seen, is all too important to the proper functioning of democracy. 


They encourage a different, less mentally consuming form of discourse which does not involve disagreement but rather the opposite: agreement. Discourse tends to mend unfairness, while discussion with like minded tends to further polarize those discrepancies. While condemning agreement within one’s own group is absurd, a lack of education leads one to be content with indulging in blind agreement rather than seeking disagreement. 


An uneducated person’s facts come from widely off speculation and angry media anchors, and when facts are pushed to the extremes and are infused with anger at the opposing group, these facts become harder to let go. Moreover, when these extreme assumptions are held with anger with no resolve to subject them to discourse, the blind anger held on the opposing group only grows larger and larger. Education ensures facts remain facts, and separates opinion and ego, which makes letting go of them easier. 


Dwelling too much on the exploitations of the tools of democracy also ignores the benefits of the same tools, albeit combined with an education. A scalpel could be just another knife for a chef or a butcher, whereas the same scalpel could be a life-saving instrument in the hands of a surgeon. Similarly, a voice complemented without any background renders freedom of speech, and consequently, democracy, useless. Only when this freedom of speech is coupled with an education, can the two work mutually to achieve the goals of democracy. 


However, unlike the weapons of the past, a voice poses no prerequisite to its use, perhaps one of the reasons why modern fights for fairness often are named “movements” instead of “revolutions.” As with any new tool introduced, however, there will always be those who abuse it to the detriment of society. While efforts are being made to expand law to cover misuse of voice, no headway could be made if half of the population is captivated by a whole new entertainment industry exploiting this tool of freedom of speech: television. Education is the only method to pull these people out of these traps of ignorance, and only then can the democratic crimes of the television industry be prosecuted. 


We need education even more now, because democracy requires education. In other words, democracy is an investment in our society that requires education to pay off in fairness. Democracy takes advantage of the assumption that the human brain has evolved beyond basic human nature, and gives us a more powerful, albeit more dangerous, tool to fight for fairness. To use this tool correctly requires as much skill and training as fighting for fairness with guns and swords, but instead of training barracks we have education, and instead of bloodshed and slaughter we have discourse. Education not only allows us to have the effects of a revolution without any of its consequences, but also safeguards us against falling back to our comfortable human nature.


Ultimately, it is human nature rather than a lack of education that causes democracy to fail, because for there to be fairness, we must collectively transcend human nature and embrace mental discomfort. However, education lowers this bar of discomfort, until one comes to embrace discourse and disagreement more and more. That is true fairness: when people are ready to abandon human nature in favor of fairness.