At that time, my only education was a few years of kindergarten my parents had signed me up as an alternative to child care. I had not known anything about the media, politics, nor my brain was developed enough to understand these issues. As such, I had no idea to simply ignore what nonsense the news anchors, and clenched my mom’s hand even tighter then before—only to see her face looking nonchalantly at the television screen, unfazed by all the threats the news anchor had made. 


I could understand why my parents were so unfazed now, 7 years later: they weren’t struggling. They weren’t living in a one story rented flat struggling off last month’s paycheck. They didn’t have to worry about bringing food on the table, or paying off rent. But most important of all, they were educated. Education gave them the confidence to ignore the media’s claims.


If we analyze all the possible obstacles to our democracy working properly, and in turn, fairness being reached, then media malaise stands out the most. Instilling fear and promoting absurd, almost extremist solutions are commonplace in media, and the consequences to democracy are well-known to all: polarization, cynicism, and distrust in institution. Ultimately, these all lead to unfairness. 


But what is fairness? Is it ensuring that everyone has the same salary? Then we have got a communist society. Is it ensuring that everyone has an equal chance at having high salaries? By what point do we draw the line between equality, ensuring equal chance at success, and equity, equal success? 


Perhaps, a better question to ask is: we have democracy, so why worry about fairness? In the times before democracy was commonplace, the price for fairness was bloodshed—fairness was in its most literal sense possible, and the only way to obtain it was to fight with axes and fists. Democracy brings us one step closer to fairness: ensuring everyone has a voice, and thus, the same chance to fight for fairness as everyone else. In other words, it raises the starting pedestal and brings us a bit closer to fairness, but even though fairness is closer to our reach doesn’t mean we can be negligent and bathe in the fairness we imagine.


Democracy has also given us a voice, which made the fight for fairness easier—now done with our computers and voice, rather than swords and guns. Democracy is the equivalent of giving everyone a sword to fight back any tyrants, but if we stop there, then we are no closer to fairness. A voice without education is as useless as a sword in incompetent hands, perhaps even more harmful as wielding a looud, ignorant voice doesn’t have the same consequences as wielding a big sword without training. 


Everyone knows to be careful with a sword—a sword kills. But as for a voice, the consequences it can bring are less to the individual but more to society and fairness. Legions of uneducated voices all shouting extremist ideas and attacking members of opposite groups don’t do the same harm to the individuals and the original perpetrators than a legion of untrained men swinging swords around, hitting everything they can. 


Perhaps, in this perspective, democracy has made the fight for fairness safer, but harder. Education enables people to use the tools of democracy towards fairness, but a lack of education can also mean the opposite: that people use it against fairness.


Discourse is the best avenue for using voice in terms of fairness, but discourse is not some ordinary activity normal people take up for fun. When people live paycheck to paycheck with not even the guarantee of a roof above their heads the next day, as is common among the uneducated, ‘discourse’ seems more like a joke. They would rather sit down and watch TV unthinkingly, a seemingly innocent activity, until the news anchor starts spoon feeding absurd, albeit feel-good ideas to the tired, passive brain of the couch viewer. All this from a lack of education is plausible, as passiveness and a tired, empty brain is the ideal breeding ground for polarization and cycnicism. 


The broader benefits of education are known to all: higher wages, stable economy, longer lifespan, and more equality. While all of these benefits might be in the same direction as fairness, the most important thing that education does to people is empower their voice. Higher wages or a more satisfied population doesn’t matter if none of them are capable of expressing their own opinions—the central idea behind democracy.


The two elements to fairness are first, a voice, and second, an opinion. A voice without an opinion is as worthless to fairness and democracy as an opinion without a voice—they depend on each other to bring about fairness. 


Luckily, democracy has secured us our voice, and strict laws make it hard for anyone to prohibit another person from saying something. Having the ability to say and discuss freely doesn’t automatically bring fairness—the content of what is said is also important. 


What use is a voice when we all say the same things and rattle our ideas off of similar-minded people? Have all our ancestors fought for the so-deemed “valuable” democracy for all of just to waste our newfound freedom by not reaching out to different-minded groups?


Hiding in our own worlds of acceptance and righteousness doesn’t constitute fairness. Achieving true participation isn’t easy when human nature compells us to stay within our safe boundaries—enacting laws might make speech truly free, but the second step of using the free speech to reach fairness can only be achieved with education. 


Ensuring freedom of speech can be done externally through a good government, but ensuring that people don’t use their voice to further homogenize their group’s views is more difficult.  Nevertheless, it is generally accepted that more educated people will be more open-minded and participate in more discussions with opposing political groups. 


In addition, education cements a person’s voice in facts, from which they can build their opinions. Especially in a world of conflicting media set to exploit every whim of a human being to accomodate their agendas, those without any background or facts as a base will have trouble discerning truth from fiction when watching the news or deciding to vote. The power of education can be seen also, from the other side, through the eyes of extremist terrorists. With powerful religious education and indoctrination techniques, terrorist groups in the Middle East have managed to recruit many devout followers—no matter how absurd their ideology is from simply a human point of view. 


Of course, the result would be vastly different if we base our education on facts and let critical thinking skills foster. Nevertheless, the point remains: education is a double-edged sword for the masses, and also one that builds upon freedom of speech to achieve fairness. 


When children are taught that they are wrong but are still allowed to discuss and think, then there is no longer the problem of having their voice “hijacked” by media. When we fill their voice with meaningful facts, from which they can build their opinions upon, then there is no longer the problem of participation in politics or ignorant righteousness. 


The problem that a lack of education brings extends further than just close-mindedness, but it can also render a person weak, and make them fall easier to often false widely-held beliefs. Most of the time, these beliefs will make them feel good about themselves, such as blaming their problems on immigrants, or going to the extremes on the political spectrum and believing that they are right and everyone else is wrong. 


A person’s voice is similar to a blank canvas which can be drawn on and manipulated to shape their opinions. A canvas with a poor background who is atheist might form vastly different opinions from a canvas with a rich family and who is Catholic/Buddhist/Jewish. While life experiences and parenting might alter the blank canvas that every person starts with, it is ultimately education that has the most impact on filling these canvases with meaningful and true facts that the student could then use to other applications in life. Contrast that, with a person who has never received a formal, effective education, and whose canvas is filled only through their life experiences, but mostly through media representation of issues such as global warming, immigration, and politics. 


When a person’s canvas, perhaps the most sacred part of the identity of that person, is so open to manipulation by politicians and media, it could only be because he has nothing to fill it with. In contrast, the educated person has his canvas filled with meaningful information, including to take everything on television with a grain of salt. 


Perhaps, this is the most important benefit that education can give to anyone: an addition to their identity. Regardless of all the obvious ones that come with a high school/college diploma, it changes the way that a person thinks. It gives a person content to their voice, and goes the other half of the way to fairness. 


Fairness, in the democratic sense, consists not only of ensuring everyone has an equal voice, but also that they use their voice towards democracy: to participate and discuss. Participation and discussion cannot happen between uneducated groups of people. Contrary to our comforts, however, discussion does not take place within our own ideological groups—discussion entails 2 different groups. The prerequisite for discussion is argument—there must be a difference in thinking for their to be discussion. 


In the past, when fairness was fought with axes and blood, the most important factor to fairness was the strength and ability of the oppressed to revolt against their oppressors. Democracy and a plethora of advances in law will prevent the problems our ancestors had fought against, but it is still not without its problems and struggles. Democracy does not guarantee fairness, but it does guarantee a tool for achieving fairness: freedom of speech.


With that tool comes the skills to use that tool, and as with any other powerful tool, comes the power to prevent others from stealing it and using it for their own purposes. A scalpel could just be a plaything in one person’s hands, but a life-saving instrument in a surgeon’s hand. Similarly, a voice complemented without any background renders the freedom of speech our ancestors had fought for useless. Only when this freedom of speech is coupled with an education, can the two elements work mutually to reach the fairness we all desire. 






































































___