At that time, my only education was a few years of kindergarten my parents had signed me up as an alternative to child care. I had not known anything about the media, politics, nor my brain was developed enough to understand these issues. As such, I had no idea to simply ignore what nonsense the news anchors, and clenched my mom’s hand even tighter then before—only to see her face looking nonchalantly at the television screen, unfazed by all the threats the news anchor had made. 


I could understand why my parents were so unfazed now, 7 years later: they weren’t struggling. They weren’t living in a one story rented flat struggling off last month’s paycheck. They didn’t have to worry about bringing food on the table, or paying off rent. But most important of all, they were educated. Education gave them the confidence to ignore the media’s claims.


If we analyze all the possible obstacles to our democracy working properly, and in turn, fairness being reached, then media malaise stands out the most. Instilling fear and promoting absurd, almost extremist solutions are commonplace in media, and the consequences to democracy are well-known to all: polarization, cynicism, and distrust in institution. Ultimately, these all lead to unfairness. 


But what is fairness? Is it ensuring that everyone has the same salary? Then we have got a communist society. Is it ensuring that everyone has an equal chance at having high salaries? By what point do we draw the line between equality, ensuring equal chance at success, and equity, equal success? 


Perhaps, a better question to ask is: we have democracy, so why worry about fairness? In the times before democracy was commonplace, the price for fairness was bloodshed—fairness was in its most literal sense possible, and the only way to obtain it was to fight with axes and fists. Democracy brings us one step closer to fairness: ensuring everyone has a voice, and thus, the same chance to fight for fairness as everyone else. In other words, it raises the starting pedestal and brings us a bit closer to fairness, but even though fairness is closer to our reach doesn’t mean we can be negligent and bathe in the fairness we imagine.


Democracy has also given us a voice, which made the fight for fairness easier—now done with our computers and voice, rather than swords and guns. Democracy is the equivalent of giving everyone a sword to fight back any tyrants, but if we stop there, then we are no closer to fairness. A voice without education is as useless as a sword in incompetent hands, perhaps even more harmful as wielding a loud, ignorant voice doesn’t have the same consequences as wielding a big sword without training. 


Everyone knows to be careful with a sword—a sword kills. But as for a voice, the consequences it can bring are less to the individual but more to society and fairness. Legions of uneducated voices all shouting extremist ideas and attacking members of opposite groups don’t do the same harm to the individuals and the original perpetrators than a legion of untrained men swinging swords around, hitting everything they can. 


Perhaps, in this perspective, democracy has made the fight for fairness safer, but harder. Education enables people to use the tools of democracy towards fairness, but a lack of education can also mean the opposite: that people use it against fairness.


Discourse is the best avenue for using voice in terms of fairness, but discourse is not some ordinary activity normal people take up for fun. When people live paycheck to paycheck with not even the guarantee of a roof above their heads the next day, as is common among the uneducated, ‘discourse’ seems more like a joke. They would rather sit down and watch TV unthinkingly, a seemingly innocent activity, until the news anchor starts spoon feeding absurd, albeit feel-good ideas to the tired, passive brain of the couch viewer. All this from a lack of education is plausible, as passiveness and a tired, empty brain is the ideal breeding ground for polarization and cynicism. 


These 2 evils against fairness, polarization and cynicism, are all caused and incited by fear mongering media, and further discourage the discourse which, as we have seen, is all too important to the proper functioning of democracy. 


They encourage a different, less mentally consuming form of discourse which does not involve disagreement but rather the opposite: agreement. Discussion amongst like-minded individuals, however, does not warrant the term discourse, but also does not have the same results as discourse in terms of advancing fairness. Discourse tends to mend discrepancies/unfairness, while discussion with like minded tends to further polarize those discrepancies. The purpose and the benefits of discourse stem from its ability to mend any perceived unfairness between two groups easily, while the other form of discourse among like minded people only serve to further separate any differences between groups, and if the separation becomes large enough, turn to outright hatred. 


While condemning talking within one’s own group is absurd, being uneducated leads one to be content with indulging in blind agreement rather than seeking disagreement. Moreover, education gives someone purpose to seek out disagreement—to challenge his/her beliefs.


An uneducated person’s facts come from widely off speculation and angry media anchors, and when facts are pushed to the extremes and are infused with anger at the opposing group, these facts become harder to let go. Moreover, when these extreme assumptions are held with anger with no resolve to subject them to discourse, the blind anger held on the opposing group only grows larger and larger. Education ensures facts remain facts, and separates opinion and ego, which makes letting go of them easier. 


There is another way to think of the differences that education has in a democratic world: democracy gives us all tools for fighting for fairness, while education teaches us how to use that tool effectively. When democracy was not as commonplace, fairness was fought with swords and resulted in bloodshed. The most important factor to fairness was the strength and ability of the oppressed to revolt against their oppressors. Democracy gave us the tool to fight for the same fairness, but with no bloodshed and violence involved. 


However, how we use the tools that democracy gives us also matters. A scalpel could just be a plaything in one person’s hands, but a life-saving instrument in a surgeon’s hand. Similarly, a voice complemented without any background renders the freedom of speech our ancestors had fought for useless. Only when this freedom of speech is coupled with an education, can the two elements work mutually to reach the fairness we all desire. 


However, unlike the sword of the past times, a voice poses no prerequisite to its use: anyone could use it to fight for democracy. The fight now was not defined by who was the strongest, but rather who had the most support of the people. In some ways, this meant democracy improved life and its fairness, overall. Using a sword in the wrong way presents harm to the individual, deterring those who are not trained to use it from picking up a sword. Using a voice in the wrong way also presents harm, not to the individual, but rather, to society and fairness. A voice echoing nonsense and hatred does little harm to society, but a legion of voices determined that they are right and who will