Fairness in the past, before democracy had existed, consisted only of the right to not be killed unjustly. Any further rights were not just unrealistic, but they were out of human imagination—the peasants or slaves had no time to think of any other pleasures than having food. Yet, even this simple right to life was not guaranteed and had to be fought for, with swords and guns, and consequently, deaths. The stronger the populace, purely in terms of the ability to fight, then the “fairer” society was. A society of weak slaves who are fed at bare minimum and allowed minimal social interaction, however, allows the government to do things according to their own will and ignore the population’s wishes. The key to fairness in these times was a strong population capable, and willing to fight. 


Democracy, however, changed the context of fairness: it now is no longer the right to a life, nor the right to food. Perhaps, the staple of democracy is not any of the rights guaranteed by the Charter or the Constitution, but rather it is about the possibility to govern oneself—to try to allow every person to have a voice in their own life. That alone is the greatest right a government could give any person: control over the laws that dictate how they live. 


With this great right, however, comes the requirement of participation in discourse with others who might not agree, and think for oneself the policies that suits one best. Democracy assumes that humans have evolved beyond basic cavemen who have no other will than to be enslaved to their human whims. It requires one to let their egos go and open their ideas to others for criticism, to think for themselves rather than adopt the schools of thought commonly presented on television, but most importantly of all, requires one to not shut themselves in acceptance, because blind acceptance corrodes democracy. 


Democracy is not fairness—it is a tool for fighting for fairness.  


Perhaps, a better question to ask is: we have democracy, so why worry about fairness? In the times before democracy was commonplace, the price for fairness was bloodshed—fairness was in its most literal sense possible, and the only way to obtain it was to fight with axes and fists. Democracy brings us one step closer to fairness: ensuring everyone has a voice, and thus, the same chance to fight for fairness as everyone else. In other words, it raises the starting pedestal and brings us a bit closer to fairness, but even though fairness is closer to our reach doesn’t mean we can be negligent and bathe in the fairness we imagine.


Democracy has also given us a voice, which made the fight for fairness easier—now done with our computers and voice, rather than swords and guns. Democracy is the equivalent of giving everyone a sword to fight back any tyrants, but if we stop there, then we are no closer to fairness. A voice without education is as useless as a sword in incompetent hands, perhaps even more harmful as wielding a loud, ignorant voice doesn’t have the same consequences as wielding a big sword without training. 


Everyone knows to be careful with a sword—a sword kills. But as for a voice, the consequences it can bring are less to the individual but more to society and fairness. Legions of uneducated voices all shouting extremist ideas and attacking members of opposite groups don’t do the same harm to the individuals and the original perpetrators than a legion of untrained men swinging swords around, hitting everything they can. 


Perhaps, in this perspective, democracy has made the fight for fairness safer, but harder. Education enables people to use the tools of democracy towards fairness, but a lack of education can also mean the opposite: that people use it against fairness.


Discourse is the best avenue for using voice in terms of fairness, but discourse is not some ordinary activity normal people take up for fun. When people live paycheck to paycheck with not even the guarantee of a roof above their heads the next day, as is common among the uneducated, ‘discourse’ seems more like a joke. They would rather sit down and watch TV unthinkingly, a seemingly innocent activity, until the news anchor starts spoon feeding absurd, albeit feel-good ideas to the tired, passive brain of the couch viewer. All this from a lack of education is plausible, as passiveness and a tired, empty brain is the ideal breeding ground for polarization and cynicism. 


These 2 evils against fairness, polarization and cynicism, are all caused and incited by fear mongering media, and further discourage the discourse which, as we have seen, is all too important to the proper functioning of democracy. 


They encourage a different, less mentally consuming form of discourse which does not involve disagreement but rather the opposite: agreement. Discussion amongst like-minded individuals, however, does not warrant the term discourse, but also does not have the same results as discourse in terms of advancing fairness. Discourse tends to mend discrepancies/unfairness, while discussion with like minded tends to further polarize those discrepancies. The purpose and the benefits of discourse stem from its ability to mend any perceived unfairness between two groups easily, while the other form of discourse among like minded people only serve to further separate any differences between groups, and if the separation becomes large enough, turn to outright hatred. 


While condemning talking within one’s own group is absurd, being uneducated leads one to be content with indulging in blind agreement rather than seeking disagreement. Moreover, education gives someone purpose to seek out disagreement—to challenge his/her beliefs.


An uneducated person’s facts come from widely off speculation and angry media anchors, and when facts are pushed to the extremes and are infused with anger at the opposing group, these facts become harder to let go. Moreover, when these extreme assumptions are held with anger with no resolve to subject them to discourse, the blind anger held on the opposing group only grows larger and larger. Education ensures facts remain facts, and separates opinion and ego, which makes letting go of them easier. 


There is another way to think of the differences that education has in a democratic world: democracy gives us all tools for fighting for fairness, while education teaches us how to use that tool effectively. When democracy was not as commonplace, fairness was fought with swords and resulted in bloodshed. The most important factor to fairness was the strength and ability of the oppressed to revolt against their oppressors. Democracy gave us the tool to fight for the same fairness, but with no bloodshed and violence involved. 


However, how we use the tools that democracy gives us also matters. A scalpel could just be a plaything in one person’s hands, but a life-saving instrument in a surgeon’s hand. Similarly, a voice complemented without any background renders the freedom of speech our ancestors had fought for useless. Only when this freedom of speech is coupled with an education, can the two elements work mutually to reach the fairness we all desire. 


However, unlike the sword of the past times, a voice poses no prerequisite to its use: anyone could use it to fight for democracy. The fight now was not defined by who was the strongest, but rather who had the most support of the people. In some ways, this meant democracy improved life and its fairness, overall. Using a sword in the wrong way presents harm to the individual, deterring those who are not trained to use it from picking up a sword. Using a voice in the wrong way also presents harm, not to the individual, but rather, to society and fairness. A voice echoing nonsense and hatred does little harm to society. A legion of voices, however, determined that they are right and who will stop at nothing to try to destroy the opposing legion of voices, and a whole new entertainment industry dedicated to making more people fall into these traps of ignorance from which one can never climb out has a disastrous effect on society. 


Most commonly, these legions of voices on the far ends of the political spectrum are composed of uneducated people who don’t know how to use the powerful tool of democracy other than shout nonsense in ensemble with dozens of other uneducated people. Using their voice in this fashion is appealing especially to uneducated people because it makes them feel good, whereas discourse requires one to abandon his ego in search of fairness. 


We need education even more now, because democracy requires education to work. In other words, democracy is an investment in our society that requires education to pay off in fairness. Democracy assumes that the human brain has evolved beyond fighting for fairness with sticks and stones, and gives us a more powerful, albeit more dangerous, tool to fight for fairness: a guaranteed voice for everyone. While a voice gives everyone an avenue for fighting for fairness, it also gives people who have nothing to say, who want to be accepted and feel right, and who are, generally, uneducated, an avenue for going in the opposite direction. Education teaches one to embrace disagreement in search for fairness, whereas a lack of education results in one falling for the human whims of acceptance and comfort.