Poem for next Thursday: 25 lines, on a message you feel would make life better/the world a better place. Try to choose something specific to you and that you actually care about and are invested in, rather than broad issues (like global warming, world peace, pollution, etc.--which are all great issues but which can yield cliché-sounding poems if approached too broadly). 
* include and label 5 different literary devices 
* include and label 3-5 sound devices
* include a theme statement 
Dancing Death
Tired death came from a
Long—uphill—windy road. 
His eyes played the movie
We all had seen before.


The alarm ringed,
Eggs sizzled,
The sun went up...down.
And Death came closer.


We waited—
Talked gibberish—held hands.
Argued—cried—
And Death came closer.


Pretended to sleep,
TICK TOCK of the clock so loud.
Played blind and deaf,
That’s when Death knocked.


We stormed down to confront it,
face to face with Death.
We glared at it, but couldn’t.
It was his face that we were staring at.
20
Death danced around his limp body—
Then left.


Scooped the leftovers.
No way to know. It oughtahappenoldagetakescareofhimgonejustlikethat 
He knew from the beginning. He watched it dance.










I was too busy to greet Death properly.
Busy when he knocked suddenly. 
Opened the door and stepped in. 
I wasn’t ready—
There was never enough time.


Went through dark gates,
Emerged in a world where
People walked backwards, 
Stopped backwards, neatly
Stacking just before the intersection.


I saw me. 
Black hairs took over
Grey hairs, growing higher and thicker.
Grown taller, skin tighter. 
Halfway through, the glasses came off forever.


Walked backwards out of school,
Went up the slides and down the ladder.
Fully formed candies emerging out of my mouth,
Into my hands and back into the wrappers.
Ran backwards through the doors, magically opening for me.


Grew smaller again, loss hair.
Parents recovered from depression,
Smiling wildly at the Gynecology ward.




Why you chose this particular poem?
 
This poem contains a wide variety of literary and sound devices which help enhance its central message and sound when performing. Other than these technical elements, the poem’s topic of death makes it universal, and the experience of the speaker will inevitably happen to the reader at some point—whether death will creep up on their parents, friends, or even themselves. We have all thought of death at some point, and some think of death every day. The universality and pervasiveness of death in our thoughts are always ignored as we cite someone’s death as “sudden” or as if it had “crept up upon us.” This poem shows the suddenness of death in lieu of their thoughts, and the irony of citing a death as “sudden.”
 
Writing Process
 
I had written the poem all in one sitting after contemplating for a significant length of time what was “something that [I] actually care about and are invested in.” I stumbled upon