In Asia, the teachers focus mainly on math and logic skills because they believed that most skills in life require mathematical skills. I agreed with this fact, but somehow, I felt that math was so boring! However, my father kept forcing and encouraging me to do the extra math homework, and by the time I was in grade 1, math was my favorite subject! As I progressed, my love of math transformed my way of thinking and personality. I knew how to expand and combine simple facts to solve a very complicated problem. My personality has changed from my depressed hours of learning math with my dad, now, I am very technical and prefer facts which could be expanded to concepts. 
        At home, I would identify the areas that I need to work on in order to achieve my goals. I think this is the best method for studying effectively. In addition, I understand concepts very quickly, but if I do not understand, I will do everything I can to grasp the concept. I am very good at math, and I can solve all of the problems that people present to me (so far). I love math because I love learning new things that I can use in my everyday lives. Some people do not like learning, the main reason is because they think it is boring! However, knowing the fact that someday, these new things will be used have helped me become a lifelong learner. From the time I was born to the present time, I have always been learning. I hope that I would continue learning until the time I die!
        I am a problem solver in a technical way. That means I solve problems not using my own judgement, but using facts that everyone agrees to. That way, somebody would not be able to disagree with me, because it is a true fact. In addition, I can point out illogical statements in my opponents speech and make me win. On the technical side, I am very strict about things and I would often strive my best to fix it. In addition, problem solving is one of my best talents, I would often calm and slow down and think, even if I know that the seconds are ticking by. I have solved many disputes, some of which I am the second party, and some of which I am third-party. 
        I also work very efficiently independently. I do not like working on a team because it takes a very long time to do simple tasks, where I could just do it myself faster. However, I recognize the benefits of working on a team, because we can achieve harder tasks in a shorter amount of time. However, this only works in the best of the best situations, and very rarely is the team the “best of the best.” I know the importance of secrets, and I think it is the fuel of a great society. Many people have trusted and consulted me with their secrets, so I hope I can help you too.