Know Me As
        [As Asians] In Asia, the curriculum focus mainly on math and logic skills because the teachers believe that most jobs and professions in life require the left side of the brain. I agree with this fact, but somehow, I felt math was so boring when I was young [I agree with this fact but I somehow felt math was so boring when I was young] ! Regardless of what I thought and said, my father kept forcing and encouraging me to do the extra math homework and by the time I was in grade 1, math was my favorite subject! As I progressed, my love of math slowly transformed my way of thinking and personality. I knew how to expand and combine simple math facts to solve very complicated problems. My personality has changed for the good as a result of my depressed hours of learning math with my dad.
        At home, I would identify the areas that I need to work on in order to achieve my goals. I think this is the best method for studying effectively. In addition, I understand concepts very quickly, I will do everything I can to grasp it. As a result of my determination, I am very good at math, and I can solve all of the problems that people present to me, so far. I love math because I love learning new things that I can use in my everyday lives. Some people do not like learning math, and most of the time, the main reason is because they are frustrated! Almost all students in Vietnam have been frustrated, but by being forced to do math, math has been their favorite subjects. Knowing the fact that someday, these new things will be helpful to me have helped me become a lifelong learner. From the time I was born to the present time, I have always been learning, and I hope that I would continue learning until the time I die!
        I am a problem solver in a technical way. I solve problems not using my own judgement, but using facts that everyone agrees to. Therefore, somebody would not be able to disagree with my thinking and judgement, because it is a true, even if it is indirectly applied. In addition, during debates, I can point out illogical statements in my opponents speech and make me win. On the technical side, I am very strict about things and I would often strive my best to fix it. In addition, problem solving is one of my best talents, in often moments in crisis, instead of panicking, I would often slow down and think, even if I know that the seconds are ticking by. I have solved many disputes, some of which I am involved in it, and some of which I am the third-party. 
        I also work very efficiently independently. I do not like working on a team because it takes a very long time to do simple tasks, where I could just do it myself faster. For example, I do not have to waste time telling everyone my idea, instead, if I worked alone, I would just execute it. However, I recognize the benefits of working on a team, because we can achieve harder tasks in a shorter amount of time. Theoretically, the famous quote,, “ The whole is greater than the sum of its parts” means 1+1=3. However, this only works in the best of the best situations, where everyone is always listening and everything works according to the plan. However, very rarely is the team in the “best of the best.” I know the importance of secrets, and I think it is the fuel of a great society. I am very trustworthy, and I will give your valuables or things back to you as soon as I am finish using it. I will not lie and say I forgot it at home or anything like that. 
             As you can see, I am a very factual person, which means that I am very technical, like a piece of programming code. As you can see, math is very important to my life.  My parents have shape this part of my life. Without  my over demanding dad, without the countless hours of frustration and doom, without the meaningful slaps in the head for careless mistakes, but most importantly, without my parents, I would not be the good person I am today.






---------------
At home, I would identify the areas that I need to work on in order to achieve my goals. I think this is the best method for studying effectively. As a result of my determination, I am very good at math since I could solve most of the math problems that people present to me (so far!). I love math because I can explore the depths of the deep forest of possibilities that await for me and other mathematicians to discover them. I love math because I can apply what I learnt to my everyday lives and to explore more theories within the deep forest of math. When I solved a difficult problem I thought a new forest was explored. Some people do not like learning math, and most of the time, the main reason is because they are frustrated! Almost all students in Vietnam have been frustrated, but by being forced to do math, math has been their favorite subjects. Knowing the fact that someday, these new things will be helpful to me have helped me become a lifelong learner. From the time I was born to the present time, I have always been learning, and I hope that I would continue learning until the time I die!


When I solve a very hard math problem, I feel like I have another tool to help me solve another complicated mystery that will lead me deeper into the forest of mathematics.