“People value education that is practical, work that is profitable, and products that are supposed to be useful. Often, they abandon ideas and projects that they consider to be unrealistic or to have no immediate use. However, although it is true that being practical may lead to material rewards, being impractical may enrich people in other ways. Furthermore, today's practical products and activities may soon become outdated, while what now seems impractical may one day prove to be highly valuable.”


        Do people place too much value on ideas or activities that are practical? 
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
maybe
sometimes practical ideas or activities may be more stable than the unpractical ones
->already tested
sometimes theory does not work
->unexpected consequences
-->because theory only works in the abstract world, not the realistic world
being not practical requires a lot of patience,
although many have enough patience, they have the wrong view or perspective about the time it takes for not-practical things to get more useful 
there must also be a point where discovering new things using practical methods is impossible, because the theory and unpractical methods are more creative and takes less effort to find out about the more advanced discoveries. 


         Many humans learn in different ways. Some learn by doing, but some learn better by sitting in a classroom learning theory. Many people value things that provide an instant benefit, rather than things or ideas or theories that provide an even greater amount of benefits over time. Of course, a lot and a great amount of people fail to realize the amount of benefit accumulated over time, but they only realize the quick, but very little benefit that they can achieve by doing the practical things, instead of the creative things or unpractical things. Therefore, although practical ideas can be easy to achieve and provide an instance benefit and use, sometimes, theoretical practices may provide more benefit over time, or may be better for some circumstances.
        Many times and usually, theoretical things require a lot of testing for them to provide an actual benefit. Therefore, a lot of people do not have enough patience or endurance to actually use that benefit, and so they prefer to do more practical things. However their ideas and practices, which results in being more creative and sometimes, even more effective than the “normal” practical version. So it results in more benefits and more happiness, because happiness results in more benefits. 
        In addition, the more advanced the human race gets, and the harder it is to discover new things nowadays, the more and the more and the more theory gets useful. This is because practical things can be very expensive when the discoveries get more and more complicated and complicated. For example, earlier ago, when people made new discoveries, they did not have to make a lot of materials or sacrifice a lot of manpower for that much of discoveries. Nowadays, however, it requires a lot of money, and a lot of government funding as well, to just make one single  and very little discovery. Therefore, as the human race progresses on and on, the more expensive it will be to use the more practical methods in scientific or other fields’ discoveries. This is when theoretical practices become more useful than practical applications. 
        As you can see, theoretical and practical ideas and things both have very many disadvantages and advantages. To recap, as our technology today gets more and more complicated, theory will become more useful than practical things. Nevertheless, practical ideas can sometimes be more useful when discovering about some ideas that need to be tested and are practical.