There are a lot of ways to make money, and I think the most popular way is opening a business. There are many different topics you can chose about a business, but I think retailing is the best way to make money. Most customers look forward to good customer service and cheap, but quality products from the store. There are many techniques that retailers have adapted to improve their customer service, but one is return policies. I had not known about return policies before I moved to Canada, because customers cannot return items they bought from a store. Return policies has disadvantages and advantages. 


The ability to return items bought from the store is not supposed to allow customers to benefit. Realizing this, retailers are beginning to tighten their restrictions and limitations on their return policies. January is the month with the most returns according to the Retail Council of Canada(RCC). Return frauds cost retailers more than one point one billion dollars each year! If you do not know this, store are given the option to make their own return policies or not make one, which means that customers cannot return merchandise bought from a store. Honest customers are very frustrated and mad that they could no longer return items easily. A CBC Marketplace poll found that return policies are at the top of a buyers mind while buying any items. Forty nine per cent of the answerers of the poll said they hate it when stores offered credit notes instead of cash. In addition, some other forty seven per cent said that they had problems with hidden limitations in return policies that prevented them from returning items. Some people were saying that old return policies were fine while other people were saying that the old policies were unfair. Some stores say that if you removed a tag, or did anything else to it, you might risk losing your ability to return. One shopper was so mad when stores gave credit notes to her as a refund that she said to a CBC reporter she must be able to choose between cash and credit notes. Retailers in Canada lose four billion dollars each year, which makes over ten million dollars each day, from shrinkage. Shrinkage, which has increased for major stores in the past five years, includes losses including theft, credit, and debit frauds, and return frauds. Just to let you know, a quarter of theses losses is a result of return frauds. 


I think there is this part in the brain that makes the humans do bad things that would benefit them, but not other people, such as return frauds or theft. 


return policies getting higher as retailers protect them selves from return frauds.
According to the REtail Council of canada, January is the busiest mont for returns.
Fraudulent returns cost canadia retailers more than 1.1 billion dollars each year
Stores, or retailers are allowed to make their own return policies, and they also do not need to take items back.
Many customers are feeling frustrated by the fact that retailers are tightening their return policies.
A 2011 CBC marketplace poll found that return policies are at the top of their mind while buying items.
forty nine percent of the pollers said that they hate it when store offered refunds in gift cards. 
forty seven percent said that they had problems with hidden lmmitations that prevented them frm returning items
Some people were saying old policies were fine, while others were saying they were frustrated with the policies.
some stores say if you touched it, remove a tag, or anything else, you might risk not being able to return items. 
One shopper said that she must have a choice of a gift card or money. 
Retailers in Canada lose four billion dollars each year-which makes over ten million every day from srinkage, which includes losses including theft,credit, and debit frauud and returns fraud.
The shrinkage rate has increased for major stores in the past five years.
A wuarter of these losses are a result of return frauds.