Handball vs. Basketball


        Many sports are very fun to play and watch. However, there are moments in sports that are sad. In order to be good at a sport, one must be in excellent physical conditions, must be skilled, and must have a lot of experience. Basketball and European handball are the apotheosis of these conditions. However, not only do they have many similarities, but they also have many differences. 
        European handball and basketball are both quick paced games that involve excellent ball handling. In handball, the point is to score onto the opponent’s net. However, in order to do so, players have to pass and receive the ball quickly, otherwise, the opponents will intercept the ball during the pass. Also, if a player holds the ball for too long, the opponents may surround him and it would be hard to throw or pass the ball to anyone else. In my opinion, short passes are better than long passes when the opponents are near. However, long passes are good when the opponents are crowded into one area of the handball court. Likewise, in basketball, the objective is to score into the opponent’s hoop, similar to scoring into the handball net. Also, those things are similar to basketball too. 
        Both sports have many differences as well. Handball and basketball use different equipments. The basketball is very big and heavy. This is logical because a light basketball will be too easy to win and the whole game will be ruined. Also, the basketball surface is made of rubber with dents so it makes gripping the ball easier. In addition, the net, or a hoop, in basketball is smaller and placed higher than the net in handball. The handball net is like a bigger hockey net while the hoop is like a netball hoop. Furthermore, the handball is very soft and made of nylon without any rubber or grippy things. The handball is also lighter because, unlike basketball, the handball is thrown and passed using only one hand most of the time. Therefore, one injure his arm while making long distance handball throws using a basketball. 
        Handball and basketball are both different and similar in many ways. I prefer handball more because even though both are very fast paced, the handball is more light, which means it can be thrown around even faster. Also, handball is a game of strategy and fitness, not just skill. In contrast, basketball is mainly a game of skill. In my opinion, it gives an unfair advantage because more experienced players will be better. Instead, in handball, less experienced players can beat better players using their minds and health, not just skill.