A Corner Nail Salon


An immigrant Vietnamese family of two middle-aged parents and two children live in a cramped 1 bedroom apartment in suburban Mississauga, right besides Toronto. The parents work 10 hours daily in a corner nail salon just outside of Chinatown, painting nails with colorful glitter poison. In the Vietnamese immigrant community, they are living the equivalent of the American Dream. 


The stagnant smell of nail polish and acrylics attacked me as I entered my uncle’s nail salon. Only 14 years old at the time, I had visited Mississauga on a family trip to visit my newly immigrated uncle. Like many Vietnamese immigrants to Canada, they set up an inexpensive nail salon on a street corner on the edge of Chinatown. While I had never stepped inside a nail salon before, I was wary at the lack of air ventilation. Only a small glass door covered in ads—discount Vietnamese concerts and shady immigration lawyers and math tutoring services—led to the streets.


My uncle and his wife were not refugees. They had made decent upper-middle class salary in Vietnam before moving to Canada. Now, they work at a corner nail salon for less than minimum wage on the outskirts of Chinatown. 


I went back to their home for dinner after visiting the nail salon.“It’s all for the second generation,” my uncle’s wife explained while cooking soup from a stove that had lost its front cover. She’d bought it from a yard sale. “The kids are studying most of the time, because, we tell them, that if they don’t study, then have to work hard like us.” She doesn’t speak with sadness or regret, but with the convincing authority all parents hold.


“We would be back in Vietnam if it wasn’t for the children,” he frowned and stared towards the ceiling. Staff accountants, especially ones who had graduated from the national university as my uncle had, were well respected in Vietnam. My uncle had a private driver to take him to and from work and came home to a big dinner prepared by a maid. 


“Help mom set the table!” he shouts to his children.
“No, no! No need. Just let them study.” his wife quickly reassured. Then, she said the same thing once again, just a bit louder, so her kids could keep on studying.


They told us stories of the other Vietnamese immigrants in the community while the children eat with us in silence. Throughout all of the stories they told me, one theme stayed similar: most immigrants worked in nail salons. “It’s the new tradition,” she joked.


Unless you already had skills and enough English for Canada, your only option of getting a job was a nail salon. After all, it makes sense for an immigrant to enter an industry whose requirements are only sharp eyes and poison tolerance. For example, of the 581,946 Vietnamese[1] living in California, around 200,000 are licensed nail salon workers[2]. As for the whole of US, 48% of all licensed nails workers are Vietnamese. 


As political tensions rise in the one-party dominated Vietnamese government and news reports of food poisoning become more frequent, more and more Vietnamese families are looking out towards Australia, America, and Canada. The choice between a wealthy lifestyle in Vietnam versus a life spent in between four walls painting nails is further conflicted by the guarantee of a bright future for the younger generation. Many, including my family and my uncle’s, have chosen the latter option hoping a drastically improved English education would help their children become successful. 

The nail salon culture is a large part of the Vietnamese charm around the Mississauga Vietnamese community. For many immigrants, the sacrifice they had made resulted in medical school admissions, programmers, and engineers. The question of whether they still would have been able to achieve the same had their parents not immigrated to Canada early still remains. However, the trend of Vietnamese immigrants being bound to nail salons will continue, as English has not been widely taught in Vietnamese schools until recently. 


Perhaps, this resigned mindset of many Vietnamese immigrants—that the first generation immigrant’s life is tied to the nail salon—is why so many second-generation Vietnamese have a stable life. Or, perhaps, it is a false misconception born from the origins of the Vietnamese immigrant community. Misconception or not, however, the nail salon serves as a painful stepping stone, taunting the first-generation immigrants bound to its 10 hour workdays and acrylic poison. But for the second-generation, the nail salon brings of subsequent success, a strong head start, but also the weekends alone while their parents work. 


Our—Vietnamese immigrants—version of the American Dream does not include a big, healthy breakfast prepared by a mom who leaves for work at 9 AM and comes back before 5 PM. It does not include well-dressed children who go to private schools and attend soccer practice before going home to piano tutors and a big family dinner. All these comforts had existed back in Vietnam, however. My uncle had his personal driver and a maid and signed his children up for private school and tutoring before he had immigrated. It could be said that we sacrifice these comforts of the American Dream and instead chase the dream in America, where children graduate medical school and engineering college while parents work to pay tuition. 


________________
[1] http://www.vasummit2011.org/docs/research/The%20Vietnamese%20Population%202010_July%202.2011.pdf
[2] https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs10900-008-9107-7