Notes: 
Tenses, stay in first person
Make relationship with people clear
Connect to American Dream
Make change in settings clearer
Education of the people before they came to Canada. Expand on “full-fledged accountants”




The Corner Nail Salon: A Painful Stepping Stone


An immigrant Vietnamese family of two middle-aged parents and two children live in a cramped 1 bedroom apartment in suburban Mississauga, right besides Toronto. The parents work 10 hours daily in a corner nail salon just outside of Chinatown, painting nails with colorful glitter poison. In the Vietnamese immigrant community, they are living the equivalent of the American Dream. 


The stagnant smell of nail polish and acrylics attacked me as I entered my uncle’s nail salon. Only 14 years old at the time, I had visited Mississauga on a family trip to visit my newly immigrated uncle. Like many Vietnamese immigrants to Canada, they set up an inexpensive nail salon on a street corner on the edge of Chinatown. While I had never stepped inside a nail salon before, I was wary at the lack of air ventilation. Only a small glass door covered in ads—discount Vietnamese concerts and shady immigration lawyers and math tutoring services—led to the streets.


My uncle and his wife were not refugees. They had made decent upper-middle class salary in Vietnam before moving to Canada. Now, they work at a corner nail salon for less than minimum wage on the outskirts of Chinatown. 


I went to their home after visiting the nail salon.“It’s all for the second generation,” my uncle’s wife explained while cooking soup from a stove that had lost its front cover. She’d bought it from a yard sale. “The kids are studying most of the time, because, we tell them, that if they don’t study, then have to work hard like us.” She doesn’t speak with sadness or regret, but with the convincing authority all parents hold.


“We would be back in Vietnam if it wasn’t for the children,” he frowned and stared towards the ceiling. Staff accountants, especially ones who had graduated from the national university as my uncle had, were well respected in Vietnam. My uncle had a private driver to take him to and from work and came home to a big dinner prepared by a maid. 


“Help mom set the table!” he shouts to his children.
“No, no! No need. Just let them study.” his wife quickly reassured. Then, she said the same thing once again, just a bit louder, so her kids could keep on studying.


They told us stories of the other Vietnamese immigrants in the community while the children eat with us in silence. Throughout all of the stories they told me, one theme stayed similar: most immigrants worked in nail salons. “It’s the new tradition,” she joked.


Unless you already had skills and enough English for Canada, your only option of getting a job was a nail salon. After all, it makes sense for an immigrant to enter an industry whose requirements are only sharp eyes and poison tolerance. For example, of the 581,946 Vietnamese[1] living in California, around 200,000 are licensed nail salon workers[2]. As for the whole of US, 48% of all licensed nails workers are Vietnamese. 


As political tensions rise in the one-party dominated Vietnamese government and news reports of food poisoning become more frequent, more and more Vietnamese families are looking out towards Australia, America, and Canada. The choice between a wealthy lifestyle in Vietnam versus a life spent in between four walls painting nails may be an easy choice


Perhaps, this resigned mindset of many Vietnamese immigrants—that the first generation immigrant’s life is tied to the nail salon—is why so many second-generation Vietnamese have a stable life. Or, perhaps, it is a false misconception born from the origins of the Vietnamese immigrant community. Misconception or not, however, the nail salon serves as a painful stepping stone, taunting the first-generation immigrants bound to its 10 hour workdays and acrylic poison. But for the second-generation, the nail salon brings the subsequent success, a strong head start, but also the weekends alone, eating instant ramen.


Second Reader’s Comments


Specific Commentary:
Pg1, P1, L3: I love this opening paragraph. It sets the scene nicely. However, to hook readers in even more, I suggest changing the phrase “dealing with grumpy customers” to something more powerful. Convey their true struggle. Consider even making a simple change, like “obeying demanding customers.”
Pg1, P2: Consider switching this paragraph to present tense to stay consistent.
Pg1, P3, L1-2: This is an incredibly important introduction to the fact that Mr. and Mrs. Nguyen are educated and talented, despite their current occupation. I encourage you to expand this paragraph. Instead of simply stating that they were “full-fledged accountants” explore their extent of their success. Add a few more contextual sentences to emphasize this idea.
Pg1, P3-4: Include a more fluid transition between these two paragraphs. Consider sharing background information about the narrator. What is their relationship with the Nguyen’s? Why are they there? Give the narrator purpose.
Pg1, P5, L2-3: I'd suggest adding a comma at the end of the quotation to end it. Additionally, the wording “reminiscing the life he could have had” is a little cliché. I recommend using more powerful imagery to explain this scene instead. What facial expressions suggest Mr. Nguyen’s nostalgia? Does the narrator notice a shift in the environment?
Pg1, P6, L2: Again, try to keep the tense the same. I suggest changing “they told me” to “they tell me.”
Pg1, P7: I like the inclusion of stats. Nicely done.
Pg1, P8, L3: I think that repeating the words “have a good chance” in the last sentence is slightly redundant. Consider removing them.
Pg2, P2, L3: Change “borne” to “born.”
Pg2, P2, L4: I recommend starting a concluding paragraph with the words “Misconception or not…”
Pg2, P2, L7: I love the progression of this piece, but I feel that you could end on a more significant or optimistic note. Instead of concluding with the harsh reference to “coughing fits,” consider imagining the future of the children. Give your readers a “so what”? How does their story connect to the lives of so many Vietnamese families in America? How does it connect back to the ironic “American Dream”? 


General Commentary:
Thank you for submitting to Polyphony H.S.! You piece flowed well and was a pleasure to edit. The only issue that I saw with the coherence of your piece was the constant switch in tenses. To make the piece more relevant, I suggest keeping the entire thing in the present tense. Otherwise, I suggest slightly developing the narrator’s character. They don’t have to be the protagonist, but right now, they seem to come out of nowhere. Additionally, I think that you scratch the surface with the reference to the ironic American Dream in the first paragraph. Expand on it! The reality of immigrants in America is something that needs to be shared. I especially recommend including the Nguyens’ hope for their children to live the American Dream and what that means for them. 
The imagery and references to outside sources greatly added to this piece. It is unique and very nicely done. Great job! I hope that my comments and recommendations are helpful. Keep on submitting!


Genre Editor’s Comments


Specific Commentary:
Pg1, P1, L1-2: This first sentence does a great job of leading into the piece by focusing on specific characters rather than statistics. By telling readers about one family within one nail salon, you create a personal connection to the “painful stepping stone” of immigration.
Pg1, P1, L3: The description of “fake poison,” while vivid, steps out of the realism slightly. Rather than using a metaphor to describe the nail polish, why not describe the harshness of the polish directly? I can assume that the fumes produced by nail polish are significant, especially when the family is surrounded by them on a daily basis, and I’d recommend exploring that directly so that you can uphold the realism you’ve established thus far.
Pg1, P1, L4: This is a great line, and I love the contrast between the complications of running the nail salon and the “equivalent of the American Dream.” Though Nguyens are completing difficult work, you make their motivations to find a better life clear. Since the narrative takes place in Canada, though, I’m not sure if “American Dream” is the best phrase to describe what they’re seeking. I feel as though “American Dream” is tied to the United States and the unique experience of being an immigrant there. To resolve this, I'd recommend either switching the setting (is it possible for the piece to take place in the United States?), or finding a different phrase to express this idea. 
Pg1, P2, L1-2: In what context is the narrator entering the nail salon? At first, it seems like you could be a customer, but given that you share a dinner with the Nguyens later in the narrative, that doesn’t seem to be it’s the case. To make for a smoother transition, I’d recommend clarifying the narrator’s motivations for entering the salon.
Pg1, P2, L3-4: A previous reader suggested that you change the second line of dialogue so that it’s more upbeat, and I also think that could be a positive change. Throughout the piece, you make it clear that the Nguyen family takes great pride in their work—it seems contradictory for them to say the apologetic “All the other nail salons in this area are like this.”
Pg1, P3, P1-3: Describing the Nguyens’ lives before they moved is a great choice. It creates a striking contrast between their lives in Vietnam as accountants and their lives in Canada as nail salon workers paid less than the minimum wage. It also helps readers to see how important it is for this family to provide a better life for their children: they’re willing to endure these new working conditions.
Pg1, P4, P1-2: Are we still in the nail salon? Or is the mother making soup in a different location? The shift in setting is a little unclear here, since you don’t specify that the scene has changed.
Pg1, P4, L4-5: I love how you describe “the convincing authority that all parents hold.” Rather than asking readers to pity the Nguyen family, you present them with dignity and strength, making their convictions clear.
Pg1, P5, L3: This is a powerful moment, but it makes me more curious about the narrator’s relationship to the family. Based on the writing style of the piece, it almost seems as if the narrator is there to interview the family for a newspaper; however, this is never directly stated either way. How does the narrator know the Nguyen family? What’s the narrator’s background like, and why is he or she invested in this other story?
Pg1, P6, L4: I’d recommend removing “out of” for concision. The sentence holds the same meaning without it, and “escaping it” feels a little clearer than “escaping out of it.”
Pg1, P7, L3: This is the second time that the piece references “poison” when discussing nail salons, and while readers can assume the connection between the two, I think it merits further exploration in the piece. How is working in a nail salon a health hazard? If you can highlight two or three specific health risks and the detriments of being exposed to them on a daily basis, it’ll give more weight to this claim.
Pg2, P2, L1-3: You assert a thought-provoking claim here, tying the sacrifices of first-generation immigrants to the successes of the second generation. I like the connection, but you might also want to think about describing the experience and lifestyle of the Nguyen children to build a stronger contrast. Rather than the harsh smells and hard work of the nail salon, it’d be interesting to receive a few sentences of detail about how life is like within the Toronto schools: this would allow readers to judge for themselves whether the sacrifice of the first-generation immigrants is truly worth it for the second generation.


General Commentary:
Thank you for submitting to Polyphony H.S. “The Corner Nail Salon: A Painful Stepping Stone” is a thoughtful and well-researched piece about the complications of transition. 
I enjoyed the way you used a specific anecdote to tie in the statistics of Vietnamese workers and nail salons. These two elements work excellently for the structure of the piece, effectively building a relationship between the statistics you seek to highlight and the real, human face of the first- and second-generation immigrant struggle. By integrating specific details from the Nguyen family, you make the “stepping stone” of the nail salon much more visceral. Readers can see the evidence of hardship, from the stove without a lid to the interactions between the parents and their children. These are all interesting, important details which help illustrate why your statistics matter, and I applaud you for integrating them into the piece; it gives a clear sense of who your writing affects and why.
However, while I love the combination of statistics and anecdotes, I think the execution of the two can be refined. As you can see from my specific comments, many of the specifics about the Nguyen family’s lifestyle left me a little confused, particularly the transition from the nail salon of the first three paragraphs to making soup in the fourth paragraph. The relationship between these different settings is currently unclear to readers: did the narrator and the Nguyens move from the nail salon to their house for the soup scene, or are they still in the nail salon? Since this is a creative nonfiction piece and you’re likely writing the scene from memory, you probably have a clear idea of how this transition occurred, but I’d challenge you to clarify the transitions and logistical details that would fully illustrate the scene.
Another major question that kept returning to me is the relationship between you and the Nguyens. There’s a certain feeling of journalism to this piece: you present a thoughtful yet somewhat detached tone, giving readers the sense that you’re a reporter profiling the Nguyens for a newspaper. Is this the case, or do you have some prior relationship with the family? I’d recommend elaborating on how specifically you met them and in what contexts you interact with them. If they live in the same apartment building as you, for instance, this could be an excellent point of elaboration that would help explain why you find their lives significant. Why are you interested in the first- and second-generation immigrant experience? What inspired you to write the piece? Even if you weren’t familiar with the family until you started writing this piece, elaborating on your interactions with them would be helpful: How did meet the Nguyens? What prompted you to write about them? The piece contains excellent descriptions of the factual trends that face Vietnamese immigrants, but there’s definitely room to explore your personal motivations for creating it—particularly since the piece is creative nonfiction. 
A previous reader also mentioned some discrepancies within your statistics, as you discuss the difficulties of Vietnamese who immigrate to Canada yet cite the number of Vietnamese who work in nail salons in the United States. Both of these statements highlight important aspects of the immigrant experience, but since you’re trying to prove a link between the Vietnamese immigrants who come to Canada and the number of nail salon workers, I think it’s especially important to find statistics that are for Canada only. I have no doubt you’ll be able to find some supporting research, and keeping it consistent will help maintain the professional, newspaper-like tone that you sustain perfectly throughout the rest of the piece.
Thank you again for your work. I wish you all the best as you continue writing!
________________
[1] http://www.vasummit2011.org/docs/research/The%20Vietnamese%20Population%202010_July%202.2011.pdf
[2] https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs10900-008-9107-7