A Google Images search of anorexia reveals thin white women with ribs showing. Another search of “eating disorders” turn up the same results: more thin white women with the only obvious defect being their extruding ribs and bony structure. Several even feature anorexic women in a pose that would be considered fit for a fashion or model magazine. This misrepresentation of what anorexia, or what “eating disorders” in general mean, could lead to doubts such as “Am I really anorexic if I am not white, female, and dismorphically thin?” The last thing we want as a group trying to help those suffering from eating disorders is making them doubt if they have the illness or not. 
The NIH defines “eating disorders” as “serious medical illnesses marked by severe disturbances to a person’s eating behaviours.” Nowhere in this definition does it suggest that one must be extremely thin. To have any type of eating disorder is to be mentally ill and deserves medical treatment. The difference between eating disorders and the thin body type perpetrated by the media is that one requires medical treatment and has fatalities, while the other is a false stereotype. The principle of characterizing a disorder by its causes rather than its symptoms is especially important for eating disorders, whose victims suffer the most from stigma. 
Just because it hasn’t been subject to much investigation or research as the more common and fatal diseases such as ALS or cancer doesn’t mean its victims can be subject to ridicule and crude interpretations of their symptoms. Giving the respect these victims deserve and helping them seek treatment instead of dismissing their illness would solve many of the problems around eating disorder progress. 
Anorexia is not the only eating disorder that suffers from this harmful misconception. Binge-eating, characterized by periods of uncontrollable eating followed by bouts of starvation, also suffers from the same misconceptions. A Google search of the term “binge eating” does not reveal the preceding definition, but rather images similar to McDonalds advertisements with the only difference being an excessively unhealthy person in the background. Binge eating can happen to healthy and unhealthy alike, and does not necessarily have to be fast food. Eating fast food is not binge-eating, nor is being excessively fat. 
Many victims of eating disorders will begin to question themselves whether they are “overreacting” if none of their symptoms compare to the ones shown on the Internet. White? Thin? Bones showing? Not fitting in any of these categories commonly associated with eating disorders certainly sends conflicting messages to a mind already conflicted with thoughts of self esteem and body image. Confusing victims of eating disorders by relying on stereotypes to sensationalize prevents early diagnosis and a higher chance of recovery before the victims become immersed further in their mental disorder. 
Many of these misconceptions stem from the public associating common symptoms with respective disorders. Referring to anorexia as “thinness” disease often is simpler and more sensationalist for media than referring to it as a complex mental disorder whose causes have not been figured out yet. However, being receptive to the idea that eating disorders are not defined by physical characteristics would help relieve the amount of stigma and misconception around eating disorders. 
It may be helpful to portray eating disorders with stereotypes that may reflect a portion of the victims of this disorder, but we should all be aware that eating disorders and excessively thin white women are a Venn diagram with little overlap.