We human have many problems that have to be dealt with sooner or later, such as landfills, crimes, pollution, drugs, and many more. Well, guess who makes them all, humans! Humans think that they are one of the nicest species on the planet. Yet, they kill almost every animal they can find on the planet and trap them in cages.  I am not thinking that the Earth and all the other species welcome us on the planet. Are you thinking the same thing? I wish we fixed that problem earlier. 
   I had just discovered that plastic bags are illegal in Rwanda, a country in Africa. It’s ridiculous right, banning plastic bags, a very useful item. However, when you think about it, it is a very good idea to cut down on those dirty plastics that go to the landfill every day. I am thinking that is an option that any country planning to cut down on plastic bags might consider.
   The superior strength and flexibility makes those plastic bags useful and long lasting, lasting up to thousands of years in a landfill. One example is the North Pacific Gyre, a huge area of the Pacific Ocean littered with floating plastic. 
   Even though the plastic problem has been recognized for decades, nothing has been done to it. It is like seeing a problem in a machine and not doing anything about it as if it was not a big threat.
   Scientists have tried to put plastic degrading, or eating bacteria into landfills to make plastic degrade easier. 
   Another solution is to insert weak links into the long polymer chain that makes up the plastic, so it will degrade easily.
   The Leaf Rapids in Alberta is the first city in Canada to ban plastic bags completely, a very useful method. My suggestion is that instead of just “partly” banning plastic bags; ban it completely, just like Rwanda. Also, people there get along just fine when they cannot use plastic bags and Rwanda is amazingly clean, no doubt, even though I have never been there.
   Do not think that they just put up the rule and just leave it there, there are plastic bag police, and airport security also has officers to check for plastic bags. They are very strict about it.
Paper bags replacing plastic bags is not a good idea either, because it uses a lot of trees, even though Canada has a strong forest economy. 
   After all this, I hope that countries realize the problem and put an end to it. If they do not do anything about it, then maybe the problem will get bigger and be harder to fix. If we had fixed this problem earlier, the earth would have been cleaner. I hope someone does something about it.