If you have an insight you gained while reading share it with the group. There are three “islands” in the discussion forum. Land and share what you’ve learned either on Lilliput, Brobdingnag, or Laputa.


“Gulliver’s Travels” by Jonathan Swift follows the insights and stories of a man who explores human worlds similar in every fashion to his own, except for some small gimmick that distinguishes them from ours. In the first, it is their extremely small size in comparison to the author’s; in the second, it is his extremely small size in comparison to the citizens’; and in the third, it is their frustrating inability to make good use of their excessive scientific endeavours. 


Gulliver’s travels to Lilliput show humans’ tendency to feel pompous and proud in terms of his surroundings. As the people of Lilliput are several times smaller than him, and are unable to do tasks he would consider menial, they place him in great importance and admire him. This in turn, compels Gulliver to help these people against his own conscience, by destroying their enemy’s fleet in an attempt to impress the crown of Lilliput, regardless of their size. If these people of Lilliput had not impressed their admiration for him, and cultivated his human desire to be liked, he, likely, would not have remained as obedient as he was. 


The opposite rings true when he comes to the giant-land of Brobdingnag, whose citizens are several times bigger than him. He first gets treated as a plaything and amuser by a poor farmer, before being sold into court as a result of the queens’ fascination. Instead of being first feared, then admired, Gulliver is first ridiculed by the king, before they become amused of such a small human, even smaller than the court-designated midget. He no longer feels admired, and is only there to satiate the king and queen’s curiosity. His sense of worth is decreased further by the fact that he is unable to perform useful tasks for the island because of his size. 


Another important element is his disgust for the ways of the citizens of Brobdingnag. Their giant pieces of meat, among other flaws magnified by their size, sicken Gulliver. Even though he himself contains the exact same flaws, he is unable to see them and thus, perceives himself as better than them. Ironically, however, Gulliver ridicules these giant people for being unable to see the droppings that a fly left behind.