In my opinion, it is better for children to grow up in the city than in the country side. As a result of better education, most parents go to the city before they born their kids. I hope that the government will be making more schools and better education for those who need them. Although Canada allows free education, most of the areas that are sparsely inhabited do not have schools. Therefore, the kids there have to either agree to give up education and hoping that they will get a job in the future, or travel a long way to areas that are more settles, which is painstakingly tiring. Anyways, I am going to talk about whether it is better for children to grow up in the city or the countryside. 
On the countryside, I feel very free, and as if I could do anything I want to do. Also, I do not have to endure the intoxicating pollution and trash of the city. However, I do not know if I will have any friends there on the countryside. There might be farms, cool animals, amazing stars, and a lot of space to run around, but I think it is kind of boring, staying there and having nothing to do, except homework. I cannot imagine how boring it would be, though if I have a chance, I would definitely go to have a chance to see what it is like to live on the countryside. 
Unlike living on the countryside, living in a city can be somewhat fun and interesting. There are many cool things to check out in the city, including museums, exhibitions, zoos, and many more. Also, there might be some jubilees or celebrations of the city to go to. Another great advantage of living in a city is kids can go to schools without worrying about anything. However, there are some disadvantages of living in a city, such as pollution. Pollution has been a problem to us for many centuries. However, we have not fixed it yet, and I think that it will have to wait for another century or so before it can be fixed.
I wish that there could be even distribution of settling humans. As a result of people attracted to large cities, those cities might be supper polluted, and everywhere you stand close to a tree, you feel so good as if you were addicted to the smell.