Victorians made mourning jewelry out of their loved or deceased’s hair and teeth. The Victorians were known for their serious and sombre attitude, which was even more exemplified by their use of the deceased’s teeth or nails as decorations in mourning jewelry. These decorations crafted by jewelers all feature a tooth, bone, or hair being embedded someway in the jewelry. 


Queen Victoria requested a cast of her dead husband’s hand, along with two wedding rings to be placed inside her coffin as part of her final death wishes. The first wedding ring was well known to the public and was supposedly for Prince Albert. The second ring was more secretive and was supposedly a gift from her servant, John Brown, which upset many members of the Royal family. 


The cast of Prince Albert’s hand had been made right after his death. Apparently, Queen Victoria had been so attached to her husband that she had slept with this cast of her husband’s hand nightly, and had chosen it as one of the few items to be in her coffin.


Photography was still undeveloped in the Victorian times. To take clear black and white pictures, the subject had to stand still for up to ten minutes for their images to register on the film, which would take then days to develop into a proper picture. These photographs are mostly how historians figured out the customs and values of the Victorian times. Many of the people in the photographs were sombre and seemed sad because smiling for 10 whole minutes without resting is incredibly tiring. Therefore, many Victorians decided to remain neutral as it was much less tiring and the picture would come out clearer. Perhaps this is why we think Victorians were more sombre and sad than they actually were.


“Hysteria” was an actual diagnosis for many symptoms associated with normal female reproductive traits. Sexual desire, insomnia, and faintness were common symptoms for female hysteria. Treatment would involve a doctor-induced orgasm, or “paroxysms,” as women were believed to lack sexual desire. After supposed “treatment,” women claimed to have been relieved of all of their previous symptoms. Physician fatigue and cramped fingers soon led to the invention of a machine that would do the doctor’s job of massaging the clitoris—a vibrator.


Queen Victoria disliked feminists even though she was a woman herself. She had even wrote that “Lady Amberly [a British suffragist] ought to get a good whipping.” Her authority rested entirely on her status as a “proper” woman and a queen. Deviating from this accepted groove for women was dangerous for Queen Victoria who did not have a male husband to back her. Therefore, establishing herself as a feminine and proper Queen figure first, then ruling Britain second.